--- Page 0 ---
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC GEOLOGY 
RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
University of the Witwatersrand 
Johannesburg 
y
 
 
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS 
 IN THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT,  
SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
 
 
AXEL HOFMANN 
 
 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR No. 387 

--- Page 1 ---
UNIVERSITY OF THE WITWATERSRAND 
JOHANNESBURG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON  
GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AXEL HOFMANN 
 
(School of Geosciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Private Bag 3, 
 P.O. Wits 2050, Johannesburg, South Africa 
 
present address: School of Geological Sciences, Howard College Campus. 
 University of KwaZulu-Natal, 4041 Durban, South Africa) 
 
 email: hofmann@ukzn.ac.za 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC GEOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR No. 387 
 
 
January, 2005

--- Page 2 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The 3500-3200 Ma old volcano-sedimentary succession of the Barberton greenstone belt, South 
Africa, is characterized by lithological units that are repeated in a regular manner. Ultramafic to 
dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic sequences are typically capped by zones of silica enrichment, 
followed by beds of sedimentary cherts that are rich in carbonaceous matter. Cross-cutting 
carbonaceous chert dykes and veins are common in silica alteration zones and bedded cherts. A 
detailed field study of several chert horizons covering most of the stratigraphic succession of the 
Barberton belt revealed the importance of syndepositional hydrothermal activity for their origin. 
Bedded cherts consist of silicified sedimentary and tuffaceous material that was deposited on the 
seafloor. Silicification took place at the sediment-water interface, as a result of diffuse upflow of 
low-temperature hydrothermal fluids. This resulted in the formation of cap rocks impermeable for 
ascending hydrothermal fluids. Fluid overpressure resulted in the breaching of the cap rocks at 
times. Chert dykes contain angular host rock fragments, replace wall rocks, and show evidence of 
multiple dyke fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of dyke fillings. They represent 
hydraulic fractures that were initiated by overpressuring of the hydrothermal system. The resulting 
vein networks, in both volcanic and sedimentary rocks, were then infilled, partly by hydrothermal 
chert precipitates, and partly by still unconsolidated sedimentary material derived from overlying 
sedimentary horizons. Most carbonaceous matter represents sedimentary material and did not form 
by hydrothermal processes, which supports a biogenic origin. 
 
______________oOo______________ 

--- Page 3 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
GEOLOGICAL SETTING  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT -  
 
TERMINOLOGY AND REVIEW  
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Field Distribution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Composition  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Origin  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Silicification  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Palaeontological Significance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
Kromberg Formation - K1c1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Buck Reef Chert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Kromberg Formation - K3c  
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
Barite Valley Syncline 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Msauli Chert  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
 
Central Study Area, Fig Tree–Onverwacht Contact 
 
 
 
26 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
REFERENCES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
_______________oOo_______________ 
 
 
Published by the Economic Geology Research Institute 
School of Geosciences 
University of the Witwatersrand 
1 Jan Smuts Avenue 
Johannesburg 
South Africa 
http://www.wits.ac.za/geosciences/egri.htm
 
ISBN 0-9584855-4-2 
 
 

--- Page 4 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Chert is a minor, but important component of early Archaean greenstone belts of the Kaapvaal 
Craton in southern Africa and the Pilbara Craton in Western Australia. Chert, in the c. 3550 to 3220 
Ma old Swaziland Supergroup of the Barberton greenstone belt (BGB) in South Africa, forms 
thinly bedded, stratiform horizons and consists of microcrystalline quartz with minor amounts of 
phyllosilicates, carbonate and oxide minerals, and carbonaceous matter (Lowe, 1999a; Walsh and 
Lowe, 1999). A distinct variety of black, commonly carbonaceous, chert forms cross-cutting veins 
that are present in particular stratigraphic units, and mostly beneath stratiform chert horizons. 
     Chert horizons have yielded important information on: (1) the (tectono-) stratigraphy of the 
BGB, because they represent good marker horizons (Viljoen and Viljoen, 1969a; Williams and 
Furnell, 1979; De Wit, 1982; Lowe and Byerly, 1999) and may contain volcanic or detrital zircons 
useful for dating purposes (Armstrong et al., 1990; Kröner et al., 1991; Byerly et al., 1996, 2002); 
(2) the environment and tectonic setting of the volcano-sedimentary sequence, with sedimentary 
structures providing indicators of palaeo-water depth (Lowe and Knauth, 1977; Lanier and Lowe, 
1982; Paris, 1990; Lowe, 1999a); and (3) the temperature and composition of the Archaean ocean, 
as deduced from evaporite pseudomorphs and  18O signals (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 1999; 
Knauth and Lowe, 1978, 2002). Most importantly perhaps, carbonaceous chert horizons in the BGB 
and greenstone belts of the Pilbara Craton contain the oldest morphological evidence for life on 
Earth in the form of microfossils (Awramik, 1983; Walsh, 1992; Westall et al., 2001; Schopf, 
2002), indicating that life evolved early in geological history. However, the oldest microfossil-like 
structures of putative biological origin from 3465 Ma cherts in greenstone belts of the Pilbara 
Craton have also been regarded as secondary artefacts (Brasier et al., 2002). This reinterpretation is 
partly based on the presence of the microfossil-like structures in black chert dykes, interpreted to 
represent high-temperature (>250°C) hydrothermal veins rather than primary sedimentary chert. In 
addition, micron-sized filaments that are similar to filamentous microfossils have been synthesized 
inorganically (Garcia-Ruiz et al., 2003), casting further doubt on the currently accepted evidence 
for life forms in ancient cherts. Similarly problematic are light carbon isotope signatures of ancient 
carbonaceous matter, which, although long been cited as evidence that life evolved probably as 
early as 4000 Ma ago (Schidlowski, 1988; Mojzsis et al., 1996), may not record a biological signal 
(Horita and Berndt, 1999; Van Zuilen et al., 2002). The same may be true for the light  13C values 
obtained from early Archaean black cherts from the BGB and the Pilbara Craton (e.g., Oehler et al., 
1972; Hayes et al., 1983; Walsh and Lowe, 1999; Ueno et al., 2004). Better constraints on the 
origin of the carbonaceous matter in Archaean cherts is thus fundamental for an understanding of 
the early biological record. This study presents a summary of detailed field observations on the 
occurrence of carbonaceous cherts and their relationships with the host rocks at several 
stratigraphic levels of the BGB. 
 
 GEOLOGICAL SETTING 
 
The BGB (Fig. 1) is one of the key areas for the study of mid-Archaean supracrustal sequences. 
The belt consists of a NE–SW striking, tightly folded succession of supracrustal rocks, termed the 
Swaziland Supergroup, and is surrounded by granitoid domes. The volcano-sedimentary sequence 
is subdivided into three stratigraphic units, the Onverwacht, Fig Tree and Moodies Groups. The 
Onverwacht Group formed between c. 3550 and 3300 Ma and consists of submarine ultramafic-
mafic volcanic rocks and minor felsic volcanic and sedimentary rocks. South of the Inyoka Fault, 
the Onverwacht Group has been subdivided into six formations (Fig. 2), the Sandspruit, Theespruit, 
Komati, Hooggenoeg, Kromberg and Mendon (previously Swartkoppie) Formations (Viljoen and 

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
Viljoen, 1969b; Lowe and Byerly, 1999). The Theespruit Formation is separated from the Komati 
Formation by the Komati Fault, whereas the overlying formations of the Onverwacht Group are, 
apart from local complexities, in stratigraphic continuity. Metamorphic grade is mainly greenschist 
facies, but locally reaches amphibolite facies close to intrusive plutons, in particular in the 
Sandspruit and Theespruit Formations. Onverwacht Group rocks north of the Inyoka Fault have 
been grouped together as the Weltevreden Formation (Lowe and Byerly, 1999). Differences in the 
stratigraphy, ages and depositional environments of rocks north and south of the Inyoka Fault 
suggests that the fault zone represents a tectono-stratigraphic boundary. 
 
 
Figure 1.   Geological map of the western part of the Barberton greenstone belt 
 (modified from Kamo and Davis, 1994; Lowe and Byerly, 1999). 
 
The Fig Tree Group, c. 3260-3226 Ma in age (Kröner et al., 1991; Byerly et al., 1996), comprises 
different facies associations in the northern and southern portions of the belt. The northern facies 
consists mainly of relatively deep-water turbiditic greywacke and shale with felsic volcaniclastic 
rocks at the top (Condie et al., 1970; Eriksson, 1980; Lowe and Byerly, 1999; Kohler and 
 
2

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
Anhaeusser, 2002). The southern facies is compositionally more variable and formed in a 
predominantly shallow-water setting. It includes a lower unit of shale, greywacke and jaspilitic 
banded iron formation, a middle unit of sandstone, shale and conglomerate with local detrital barite 
beds, and an upper unit of felsic volcaniclastic rocks (Heinrichs, 1980; Lowe and Nocita, 1999; 
Hofmann, 2005a). Two distinct sedimentary horizons (S2, S3) with spherules, interpreted to 
represent quenched liquid silicate droplets of meteorite impact origin (Lowe et al., 2003), occur at 
the base of both the northern and southern Fig Tree facies and in the middle part of the southern 
facies. 
     The Moodies Group was deposited at c. 3226 Ma ago (Kamo and Davis, 1994) and consists of 
shallow-marine to fluvial sandstone and conglomerate with minor shale and banded iron formation. 
The succession comprises relatively quartz-rich, predominantly arenaceous rocks in contrast to the 
more quartz-poor Fig Tree sandstones. The Moodies Group is c. 3 km thick and has been 
subdivided by Anhaeusser (1976) into three formations, each of which is a fining-upward sequence, 
ranging from conglomerates or pebbly sandstones at the base, to a thick sandstone unit, to capping 
siltstones and shales. 
     The BGB was intruded by a variety of granitoids during several magmatic episodes. The 
granitoids, with an age range from c. 3500 to 3200 Ma (Kamo and Davis, 1994), belong to the 
tonalite, trondhjemite, granodiorite (TTG) suite and have a prominent gneissic fabric, whereas the 
younger, c. 3100 Ma granitoids, are potassium-rich and form prominent sheets of granodiorite and 
monzogranite. Pre-Onverwacht Group tonalitic to granitic gneisses (Ancient Gneiss Complex) 
occur southeast of the greenstone belt in Swaziland and have been dated at c. 3644 Ma (Compston 
and Kröner, 1988). 
 
 CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT -  
TERMINOLOGY AND REVIEW 
 
Field Distribution 
 
Based on the spatial relationship with the country rock, two distinct chert units can be 
distinguished: (1) stratiform horizons; and (2) veins that cut across stratification, the latter termed 
chert dykes. Stratiform chert horizons are typically 1-20 m thick, except for the Buck Reef Chert 
(Fig. 2), which reaches a thicknesses of a few hundred metres (Viljoen and Viljoen, 1969b; Lowe 
and Byerly, 1999). With the exception of the Sandspruit and Komati Formations and to a lesser 
extent the Theespruit Formation, stratiform cherts are common throughout the Onverwacht Group 
and the lower part of the Fig Tree Group, but are rare to absent in the upper Fig Tree and Moodies 
Groups. Chert horizons frequently overlie ultramafic, mafic, and dacitic volcanic rocks that are 
intensely silicified in the uppermost few tens of metres (De Wit et al., 1982; Paris et al., 1985; 
Lowe and Byerly, 1986; Duchac and Hanor, 1987; Hanor and Duchac, 1990; Hofmann, 2005b). 
     Chert dykes are 0.1 to 3 m wide, up to a few hundred metres in length, and cross-cut the country 
rock mostly perpendicular to stratification. They are volumetrically much less important than 
stratiform chert horizons. Chert dykes are restricted to the Onverwacht Group and occur most 
commonly beneath stratiform chert horizons. Anastomosing chert veins that are oriented 
subparallel to stratification are commonly associated with the dykes. Chert dykes in the Barberton 
belt have never been the subject of a detailed study, and much of the present work is aimed at 
understanding the origin of these features. 
 
3

--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Stratigraphic logs of the Barberton greenstone belt from the western and eastern limbs of 
the Onverwacht Anticline (modified from Lowe and Byerly, 1999).  
 
 
 
4

--- Page 8 ---
 
 
Composition 
 
The petrography of stratiform chert horizons of the BGB has recently been summarized by Lowe 
(1999a). The cherts consist of microcrystalline quartz with minor, but varying amounts of 
phyllosilicates (sericite, chlorite), carbonates (calcite, dolomite, siderite), iron oxides, and 
carbonaceous matter. SiO2 contents mostly exceed 90 wt. %. The cherts range in colour from green 
to grey to black; green colours are attributed to finely dispersed chlorite and Cr-rich sericitic mica 
(herein regarded as fuchsite), whereas dark grey to black coloration is attributed to the presence of 
carbonaceous matter. Red jaspilitic cherts also occur, but they are mainly associated with 
ferruginous shales of the Fig Tree Group. 
     Of particular importance for the purpose of this study are black cherts rich in carbonaceous 
matter. The carbonaceous matter occurs in four main petrographic varieties including fine 
laminations, irregularly-shaped simple grains, lobate clumps or composite grains, and wisps that are 
interpreted to represent compacted carbonaceous grains (Walsh and Lowe, 1999). Carbonaceous 
cherts include thinly bedded heterolithic rocks (black and white banded cherts), and laminated and 
massive black chert varieties. Black and white banded cherts are made up of layers of carbonaceous 
chert and white-weathering translucent chert. 
 
Origin 
 
Stratiform chert horizons consist of a variety of silicified sediments (Lowe and Knauth, 1977; 
Lanier and Lowe, 1982; Heinrichs, 1984; Paris, 1990; Lowe, 1999a; Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 
1999). Four main groups have been identified by Lowe (1999a): (1) volcaniclastic and pyroclastic 
deposits; (2) terrigenous sediments; (3) biogenic sediments; and (4) orthochemical deposits. The 
first group includes silicified beds of komatiitic ash and accretionary lapilli that commonly overlie 
komatiitic volcanic sequences and are typically represented by light-green to greenish-grey cherts. 
Silicified dacitic volcaniclastic sediments occur at the top of the Hooggenoeg Formation and at the 
base of the Fig Tree Group, whereas basaltic, sediment-derived cherts are less common or less easy 
to distinguish. The latter chert types contain admixed carbonaceous matter and are typically well 
laminated cherts of various shades of grey. Silicified terrigenous sediments include black cherts 
derived from sandstone and siltstone in the lower Fig Tree Group and possibly from carbonaceous 
shales in the Onverwacht Group. Massive to laminated black cherts and black and white banded 
cherts have been regarded as silicified biogenic sediments by Lowe (1999a). They are common 
throughout the Onverwacht Group with banded cherts being particularly well developed in the 
Buck Reef Chert. Silicified orthochemical deposits include rare silicified evaporites, possibly 
primary sea-floor silica deposits in the form of translucent cherts, and banded iron formation and 
associated ferruginous rocks. Silicified volcanic rocks are also common, especially in alteration 
zones beneath chert horizons (Duchac and Hanor, 1987; Hofmann, 2005b), and are a distinct group 
altogether. 
 
Silicification 
 
According to Lowe (1999a), silicification of many sedimentary chert horizons (shallow-water 
deposits in particular) took place very early in the depositional history. This is indicated, for 
example, by the preservation of a high primary porosity (now infilled by chert) in coarse-grained 
clastic and tuffaceous deposits, the absence of compaction features, and the presence of chert clasts 
in intraformational breccias and conglomerates. Controversy surrounds the cause of silicification. 
Some authors associate silicification with convective circulation of hydrothermal fluids, resulting in 
subsurface metasomatism and/or deposition of silicious exhalites around hydrothermal vents (De 
Wit et al., 1982; Paris et al., 1985; Duchac and Hanor, 1987). Lowe (1999a), on the other hand, 
suggested that much of the silicification took place during interaction between sea water and 
sediments close to the sediment-water interface, as indicated, for example, by evidence for very 
 
5

--- Page 9 ---
 
 
early silicification over wide areas and the absence of more typical exhalative deposits, such as 
sinter or massive sulphide deposits. Hofmann (2005b) presented evidence for silicification of sea 
floor sediments and underlying volcanic rocks by low-temperature hydrothermal activity as a result 
of high regional heat flow. 
 
Palaeontological Significance 
 
A variety of spherical, rod-shaped and filamentous microscopic features that consist of 
carbonaceous matter have been recorded from Onverwacht and Fig Tree Group cherts and 
interpreted as microfossils in numerous early studies (references in Schopf and Walter, 1983). A re-
evaluation of the purported microfossils by Schopf and Walter (1983) led to the conclusion that 
only a few features could be regarded as being of possible biogenic origin, whereas others were 
regarded as nonfossils, including pseudofossils, artifacts of sample preparation, and modern 
contaminants. More recent reports of filamentous microfossils and traces of bacterial activity in 
carbonaceous cherts include studies by Walsh and Lowe (1985), Walsh (1992), Westall et al. 
(2001), and Tice and Lowe (2004). These studies focused on carbonaceous cherts of the uppermost 
Hooggenoeg and Kromberg Formations. 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT 
 
Stratiform chert horizons and chert dykes have been investigated at several stratigraphic levels in 
many different parts of the greenstone belt, from the Hooggenoeg Formation to the Fig Tree Group 
(Figs. 1, 2). Cherts at the top of the Onverwacht Group and those associated with the Fig Tree 
Group have been investigated mainly in the central part of the greenstone belt (Fig. 3), herein 
referred to as the central study area.  
     Carbonaceous cherts are generally dark grey to black, and fresh rock splinters are opaque. On 
the other hand, black cherts are not necessarily carbonaceous, especially black cherts that, when 
fresh, are translucent to some degree. Translucent cherts commonly show botryoidal features. In the 
following account the term carbonaceous will be used for cherts where carbonaceous matter has 
been identified in thin section. Terms like opaque and translucent will be used for black cherts that 
were only studied in the field. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation 
 
The Hooggenoeg Formation (Fig. 2) overlies the Middle Marker chert, dated at 3472±5 Ma 
(Armstrong et al., 1990), and consists of massive and pillow basalt, spinifex-textured komatiitic 
basalt, thin silicified sedimentary horizons, and, at the top of the sequence, intrusive dacitic 
volcanic rocks and an epiclastic sedimentary unit. The dacitic rocks have been dated at c. 3445 Ma 
(Armstrong et al., 1990). Lowe and Byerly (1999) subdivided the succession into several 
stratigraphic units (H2-H5), each of which is represented by a volcanic interval (H2v-H5v) that is 
capped by a 1-15 m thick chert horizon (H2c-H5c). The Middle Marker is regarded as H1 and the 
dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks are denoted as H6. Each chert horizon is underlain by a 
metasomatic alteration zone that is characterized by silicification, the presence of Cr-bearing 
sericite, stratiform chert, quartz and carbonate veins, and, locally, chert dykes. 
 
 
6

--- Page 10 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Geological map of an area in the central part of the Barberton greenstone belt, termed 
the central study area (see Fig. 1 for location). Note the tectonic duplication of the Mendon 
Formation and overlying Fig Tree Group. Sedimentary rocks below, and volcanic rocks above, the 
thrust fault are altered to black chert. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation - H3c 
 
Description: A 10-15 m thick and laterally continuous chert horizon (H3c of Lowe and Byerly, 
1999) occurs in the middle part of the Hooggenoeg Formation (Fig. 2). In the study area (Fig. 1, 
locality 1), the chert is underlain by pillow basalt, which is silicified in the uppermost 30 m. 
Silicification increases towards the basalt-chert contact. Anastomosing veins of carbonaceous chert, 
up to 8 cm wide and oriented subparallel to the stratification, occur in the uppermost 2.5 m of the 
basalt sequence and increase in frequency upsection (Fig. 4a). Some veins grade laterally from 
massive carbonaceous chert into botryoidal black and white chert with internal quartz 
mineralization. 
     The contact between basalt and bedded chert is sharp and planar. The chert horizon commences 
with a laminated carbonaceous chert that locally contains a bed of fine basalt pebble conglomerate. 
A thin basalt flow also occurs near the base, but is sheared out locally. Black chert is overlain by 
stratified, but otherwise massive, greenish-grey chert, followed by unstratified greenish-grey chert 
that contains cm-scale translucent chert veinlets. Apart from crude layering, no sedimentary 
structures are present. Massive chert is succeeded by stratified greenish-grey chert, followed by 
interbedded greenish-grey and black carbonaceous chert. Soft-sediment deformation features are 
common in the latter unit, as indicated by common load structures of grey chert into black chert and 
sediment convolution (Fig. 5a). A second carbonaceous chert variety forms massive, mostly 
bedding-parallel veins, up to 15 cm wide, in the uppermost two chert units (Fig. 4a). The veins 
cross-cut, and contain fragments of, the host rock (Fig. 5b). The chert horizon is overlain by poorly 
exposed, massive, but not silicified mafic volcanic rocks. 
 
 
7

--- Page 11 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Simplified measured sections of (a) chert horizon H3c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, (b) 
chert horizon H5c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, and (c) a section exposed beneath chert horizon 
K1c1 of the Kromberg Formation. 
 
Both bedded and cross-cutting black cherts contain carbonaceous matter, mostly in the form of 
equant to elongate, but also disrupted, irregular grains that range from silt size up to 1 mm in 
diameter and are typically 200µm across. Grains in the lowermost bedded chert, and in veins 
cutting basalt, are loosly packed (Fig. 6a), whereas grains in sedimentary and vein chert near the 
top have been somewhat flattened as a result of compaction (Fig. 6b). Cross-cutting cherts contain 
sand-sized grains that are replaced by chert or phyllosilicates, some of which are enveloped by 
carbonaceous matter. Idiomorphic sulphide grains, 50-200µm in diameter, are common and are, in 
places, associated with cross-cutting chert veinlets. 
 
8

--- Page 12 ---
 
 
Interpretation:  Chert horizon H3c consists of mainly two varieties of silicified sediments. 
Greenish-grey chert represents subaquatically deposited and reworked, silicified tuff beds of 
komatiitic basalt composition (Hofmann, unpubl. data). Laminated black chert probably represents 
background suspension sediments that were laid down during intervals of volcanic quiescence. 
Detailed sections of H3c were reported by Lowe (1999a), who regarded the rocks as having formed 
in a shallow subtidal setting. In contrast, veins of massive black chert are not directly part of the 
sedimentary sequence. The veins can neither be regarded as simple fissures that were filled by 
carbonaceous sedimentary material, nor as feeder channels for the sedimentary black cherts, as 
indicated by their stratiform geometry as well as cross-cutting relationships with banded cherts. 
Many veins contain angular host rock fragments and show hydraulic fracture patterns (cf. Laznicka, 
1988; Jebrak, 1997), suggesting that they were initiated by the forceful intrusion of overpressured 
fluids. The presence of botryoidal chert and megaquartz in veins along the basalt-chert contact is 
consistent with a hydrothermal origin of the fluids. On the other hand, all chert types are 
petrographically very similar, because they contain sand-sized carbonaceous grains of apparent 
detrital origin. Because carbonaceous chert with plastic deformation features occurs in the 
sequence, some vein chert (especially that near the top of the sequence) may have been derived 
from sedimentary chert by dewatering and squeezing out of gelatinous silica during compaction. 
That the chert became lithified relatively late is attested by some compaction of the carbonaceous 
matter. A small-scale hydrothermal system that was initially open to the sediment-water interface, 
but became closed during progressive sedimentation and silicification, resulting in the buildup of 
fluid overpressure and hydraulic fracturing, may have resulted in the formation of similar features, 
like the veins that occur at the base of the section. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. (a) Load and flame structures at the base of a grey chert bed overlying black chert. 
Bedding in black chert is strongly convoluted. (b) Stratiform black chert vein transecting stratified 
grey chert. Note the fracturing of host rock by chert veins. 
 
 
9

--- Page 13 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Photomicrographs of carbonaceous sedimentary cherts and chert dykes; plane polarized 
light, scale bars are 500 µm long. (a) Carbonaceous grains in chert dyke below chert horizon H3c. 
Note idiomorphic sulphide grain (top centre). (b) Flattened carbonaceous grains near the top of 
H3c. (a) Loosly packed disrupted fragments of carbonaceous chert in a chert dyke below H5c. (d) 
Single and composite carbonaceous grains in sedimentary chert K1c1. Note botryoidal cements 
that enclose carbonaceous material (arrows). (e) Ellipsoidal carbonaceous grains filling a chert 
dyke below the Buck Reef Chert. (f) Silicified siltstone containing disseminated carbonaceous 
grains. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation - H5c 
 
Description: A few hundred metres thick sequence of pillow basalt and minor massive basalt forms 
the uppermost part of the Hooggenoeg Formation on the east limb of the Onverwacht Anticline 
(Fig. 2). The basalt sequence is capped by a thin chert horizon (H5c of Lowe and Byerly, 1999) that 
 
10

--- Page 14 ---
 
 
has been studied at one locality (Fig. 1, locality 2). Starting from c. 50 m below the chert bed, 
pillow basalt becomes silicified upsection and is transected by a network of massive carbonaceous 
chert veins in the uppermost 5 m (Fig. 4b). The veins have a random orientation and become more 
common and wider (5-25 cm) upsection, resulting in an equal chert- to host-rock ratio near the top 
(Fig. 7a). The dykes surround, rather than contain, angular basalt fragments, and some dykes 
consist of several generations of dyke material. Rare irregular contacts between chert and host rock 
indicate minor host-rock replacement (Fig. 7b). 
     Chert-veined basalt is capped by a c. 1 m-thick horizon of massive to thinly laminated black 
carbonaceous chert. Black chert is overlain by laminated grey chert, which contains some normally 
graded laminae with accretionary lapilli. Where the basalt-chert contact is exposed, chert sharply 
overlies silicified basalt that contains abundant translucent chert veins and patches; black chert 
forms stratiform veins 10 cm below the contact. Rare bedding-parallel veins of botryoidal black and 
white chert are present in the chert horizon, indicating that it too was affected by chert veining. The 
chert horizon is overlain along a sharp and planar contact by a dacite cobble conglomerate that 
forms the base of a c. 170 m-thick, upward-fining sedimentary sequence (Viljoen and Viljoen, 
1969a). Cross-cutting veins of botryoidal chert are rare. 
     Sedimentary black chert consists predominantly of equant, sand-sized, carbonaceous grains. 
Chert dykes consist of different domains. One domain consists of tightly packed, equant, sand-
sized, carbonaceous grains similar to the sedimentary chert. Later, cross-cutting material consists of 
loosly packed, irregular fragments of the latter (Fig. 6c). 
 
 
 
Figure 7. (a) Network of black chert veins cross-cutting silicified basalt 2-3 m below the basalt-
chert contact. (b) Irregular, finger-like protrusions of black chert replacing silicified basalt. 
 
Interpretation: Chert horizon H5c is compositionally similar to H3c. Greenish-grey chert represents 
silicified basaltic to komatiitic tuff beds, as indicated by the presence of accretionary lapilli and 
trace element contents (Hofmann, unpubl. data), whereas laminated black chert represents 
background suspension sediments that include possible biogenic material. Filamentous microfossils 
have been reported from this horizon to the north of the study locality (Walsh and Lowe, 1985; 
Walsh, 1992). The planar contact between chert and conglomerate indicates lithification of the 
chert bed prior to deposition of the conglomerate. This relationship is also indicated by the presence 
of rare black and grey chert clasts in the conglomerate, suggesting local erosion of the chert bed. 
     Black chert veins transecting basalt beneath the chert horizon are interpreted to be of 
hydrothermal origin. This is indicated by the geometry of the fracture pattern and wall rock 
replacement. On the other hand, the compositions of both chert varieties are similar. Both contain 
carbonaceous grains, suggesting a genetic link between dykes and sedimentary horizons. However, 
chert dykes also exhibit a high proportion of internal cross-cutting veins that contain fragments of 
carbonaceous chert, thus reflecting a multistage development. 
 
11

--- Page 15 ---
 
 
     Diffuse upflow of hydrothermal fluids is envisaged during deposition of the sedimentary chert 
precursor. This system became closed during progressive sedimentation and hydrothermal sediment 
silicification. The sedimentary chert horizon acted as a poorly permeable barrier for ascending 
fluids, resulting in fluid overpressure and hydraulic fracturing of the basalt. The fractures were 
filled with detrital material from the overlying sediments for some time before the hydraulic system 
was sealed again and the next cycle of pressure buildup and fracturing took place. Rare botryoidal 
chert veins cutting overlying conglomerate suggest that the hydrothermal system was active well 
after deposition and lithification of the conglomerate unit. Alternatively, these chert veins are part 
of a much later hydrothermal event. 
 
Kromberg Formation - K1c1 
 
Description: A banded chert horizon near the base of the Kromberg Formation (Fig. 2), termed 
K1c1 and correlated with the Buck Reef Chert by Lowe and Byerly (1999), crops out along the 
Komati River (Fig. 1, locality 3). The exposed section starts with a fuchsite-chert-carbonate 
alteration zone that is overlain by carbonated, stratified lapillistone. Stratiform botryoidal and 
massive black chert veins less than 5 cm thick are common in both units. In the upper part of the 
section, stratiform black chert veins become more numerous, resulting in massive black chert that 
contains matrix-supported lapillistone fragments near the top (Fig. 4c). Lapillistone becomes 
progressively more silicified upsection. This is followed by a several metres thick chert horizon 
(K1c1) that consists of black and white banded chert. 
     Both vein and sedimentary black cherts contain carbonaceous material in the form of sand-sized 
grains. Botryoidal chert cement is common and is frequently interlayered with, or encloses, 
carbonaceous material of a different generation (Fig. 6d). 
Interpretation: Chert vein geometry at the top of the volcaniclastic sequence suggests a 
hydrothermal origin of the veins. The increase in veining upsection suggests some ponding of 
hydrothermal fluids below chert at times. Lapillistone becomes more silicified towards the top, 
suggesting that silicification and chert veining were contemporaneous. The same hydrothermal 
processes as discussed for H5 are envisaged to explain the field relationships. 
 
Buck Reef Chert (BRC) 
 
Description: In the study area on the west limb of the Onverwacht Anticline (Fig. 1, locality 4), the 
BRC has been subdivided into three facies (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 1999; Lowe and Byerly, 
2003; Tice and Lowe, 2004): (1) a basal evaporitic facies, containing volcaniclastic sedimentary 
rocks, chert and silicified evaporites; (2) a middle platform facies of black and white banded chert; 
and (3) an upper basin facies of banded ferruginous chert (Fig. 8). A variety of fossil-like 
microstructures have been reported from the BRC (Walsh, 1992). 
     The BRC overlies a dacitic igneous body, up to 2 km thick, termed member H6 of the 
Hooggenoeg Formation and interpreted as a large intrusive to extrusive lava dome and associated 
volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks (Lowe and Byerly, 1999; Lowe et al., 1999). The contact between 
H6 and the BRC is gradational. Massive, silicified dacite grades into conglomerate, pebbly 
sandstone, and massive to planar bedded, coarse-grained sandstone. The clasts consist entirely of 
dacitic volcanic rock, except for rare chert clasts. The sedimentary rocks are strongly silicified and 
detrital grains are variably replaced by chert. Parallel- and ripple-laminated chert is interbedded 
with, and overlies, silicified sandstone. The chert consists of interbedded translucent chert and 
black carbonaceous chert, and is frequently transected by elongate crystal pseudomorphs. Lowe and 
Fisher Worrell (1999) provided a detailed description of the facies preserved along the H6-BRC 
contact, which were interpreted to have formed in a coastal braid plain-sandflat setting. Replaced 
crystals were interpreted to represent pseudomorphs after nahcolite. 
 
 
12

--- Page 16 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Simplified section of the Buck Reef Chert. 
 
The silicified sandstone facies is overlain along a sharp contact by cherts that mostly lack sandstone 
interbeds. In the lowermost unit occur ≤ 0.5 m thick layers of silicified evaporites that are overlain 
by chert-clast breccias, with fragments of banded and evaporitic chert in a botryoidal chert and 
quartz matrix. The centres of some botryoidal chert and quartz fillings contain massive 
carbonaceous chert. Lowe and Fisher Worrell (1999) interpreted the chert breccias as evaporite 
dissolution cavities that were filled by botryoidal chert under mostly phreatic zone conditions. 
Carbonaceous chert in cavities was regarded as an injection of carbonaceous ooze, arresting 
complete precipitative filling. The evaporitic and botryoidal cherts are locally overlain by thin units 
of chert-clast conglomerate, black carbonaceous chert and green chert (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 
 
13

--- Page 17 ---
 
 
1999), and are succeeded by banded cherts of the shallow to deeper water platform and basin facies 
(Tice and Lowe, 2004). 
     Thin, randomly oriented veins of translucent chert (0.5 to 1 cm, but rarely up to 5 cm wide), are 
common in the uppermost few hundred metres of the dacitic unit. Farther upsection, stratiform 
chert veins, 1–30 cm wide, are very common in the conglomerate and sandstone facies at the H6–
BRC contact. The veins consist of massive carbonaceous as well as botryoidal chert; some massive 
black chert veins grade laterally into botryoidal chert. The chert veins transect the host rock 
subparallel to bedding and partly brecciate it (Fig. 9a). Many horizons, up to 50 cm wide, are 
superficially similar to banded sedimentary chert, but, instead, consist of multiple stratiform veins, 
as indicated by the presence of angular fragments of chert and dacitic host rock (Fig. 9b). 
Furthermore, botryoidal chert veins, up to 50 cm wide, are present that are similar to the evaporite 
dissolution cavities at the base of the BRC. Most contacts between chert and host rock, including 
host-rock fragments, are sharp. In rare cases, however, does botryoidal chert replace the host rock. 
Furthermore, the matrix of some conglomerate beds is intruded and/or replaced by botryoidal chert. 
Chert veining is most intense immediately below the evaporitic and botryoidal chert unit. Rare 
chert veins also occur within this unit, whereas chert veins were not observed in the banded chert 
unit above, although identification is obscured because of the compositional similarity. 
     Several chert dykes that are oriented at a high angle to stratification (60-90°) transect the dacitic 
volcanic and sedimentary rocks of H6. The larger ones start at least 250 m below the BRC and 
appear to taper downward. They do not transect the silicified evaporite and associated breccia 
horizon at the base of the BRC. The dykes are ≤ 2 m in width. They show a crude internal layering 
parallel to the dyke walls (Fig. 9c), because they are made up of multiple generations of dyke fills 
as well as small cracks and veins, including botryoidal chert veins. Dykes, when fresh, consist of 
massive black chert; weathered surfaces reveal a fragmental, granular fabric caused by the presence 
of sand- to fine pebble-sized, angular clasts of white-weathering, probably host-rock material. 
Some "dykes in dykes" contain angular black chert fragments of the dyke host rock (Fig. 9c). 
Wherever cross-cutting relationships between stratiform chert veins and cross-cutting dykes can be 
observed, which is rarely the case, stratiform veins postdate dyking (Fig. 9d). 
     Carbonaceous matter in both banded cherts and chert dykes and veins consists of equant, sand-
sized carbonaceous grains that are moderately packed (Fig. 6e). Veins and dykes contain, in 
addition, sand-sized fragments of the host rock, including quartz, which are frequently completely 
replaced by chert. Botryoidal translucent cherts are devoid of carbonaceous matter, except for thin, 
carbonaceous chert laminae along vein margins. 
Interpretation: Of importance in the context of this study is the origin of black chert dykes and 
veins below, and at the base of, the BRC and any possible genetic link to the overlying, unusually 
thick sequence of banded cherts. The most plausible interpretation for the origin of stratiform chert 
veins is to regard them as fractures that were initiated by overpressured hydrothermal fluids and 
were filled by hydrothermal chert and sediment-derived material. Such an origin is indicated by the 
bedding-parallel orientation, brecciation of the host rock, the local filling of veins by botryoidal 
chert, and local host-rock replacement. Chert dykes are equally interpreted as hydrothermal features 
that recorded multiple injections of fluidized sedimentary material and hydrothermal fluids, partly 
brecciating the host rock and incorporating host-rock fragments into the dyke. Stratiform veins and 
cross-cutting chert dykes probably formed during a single event, although the veins formed slightly 
later. 
 
 
14

--- Page 18 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. (a) Silicified dacitic sandstone transected and brecciated by stratiform veins of black and 
botryoidal chert. (b) Banded chert consisting of multiple stratiform veins, as indicated by angular 
fragments of dacitic host rock (arrows). (c) Dyke consisting of (1) laminated black chert, (2) 
massive black chert with fragmental texture, and (3) weathered translucent chert with angular 
black chert fragments. Layering is parallel to dyke walls (not seen in photograph), which are 
perpendicular to stratification of the host rock. (d) Black chert dyke with fragments of massive 
dacitic host rock (1) cut by stratification-parallel black chert vein (2) showing lamination. 
 
Chert veins and dykes were not observed above the basal evaporitic facies of the BRC. This may 
indicate that hydrothermal activity was ongoing while this facies was being deposited and ceased 
before deposition of the overlying cherts, or that the evaporitic facies acted as a barrier for 
ascending and/or laterally migrating hydrothermal fluids. Cessation of hydrothermal activity can be 
attributed to reduced convection of seawater through the underlying rocks, when the basal chert 
beds prevented continuous recharge of the hydrothermal system. Banded cherts above the 
evaporitic facies show soft-sediment deformation (Tice and Lowe, 2004) and may have become 
lithified relatively late in the depositional history. They were thus unable to act as an impermeable 
barrier and did not respond to hydrothermal activity by brittle fracturing. The formation of chert-
clast breccias near the base of the BRC is best attributed to subsurface dissolution of evaporites by 
hydrothermal fluids rather than to evaporite dissolution in the phreatic zone (Lowe and Fisher 
Worrell, 1999). This interpretation is in line with the presence of botryoidal chert veins in the 
volcaniclastic facies that are similar to the "evaporite dissolution cavities", thus suggesting a 
relationship between evaporite dissolution and hydrothermal activity. 
 
 
 
 
 
15

--- Page 19 ---
 
 
 
Kromberg Formation - K3c 
 
Banded sedimentary cherts (K3c of Lowe and Byerly, 1999) overlying silicified volcanic rocks at 
the top of the Kromberg Formation (Fig. 2) are exposed in several localities of the BGB. The cherts 
and associated rocks form a locally very well exposed, laterally traceable horizon that has been 
investigated in the central study area and on Josefsdal farm. 
 
Central study area 
 
Description: In the central study area (Fig. 3, locality 5), the section commences with silicified 
pillowed basalt that contains cm-wide black chert dykes at the top (Fig. 10). Basalt is overlain by 
black and white banded chert; black and botryoidal chert veins are common. The chert is succeeded 
by pillow basalt that is variably replaced by black, massive chert and minor green chert. Black chert 
occurs in diffuse patchy areas or in stratification-parallel horizons. Black chert veins parallel, 
perpendicular, and random to stratification are abundant. A few metres thick and locally sheared 
banded chert overlies basalt and is followed by a sheared fuchsite-chert-carbonate rock. 
     The same section c. 1.5 km to the east (Fig. 3, locality 6) has a similar stratigraphy (Fig. 10). It 
starts with a succession of silicified pillow and massive basalt. Stratification-parallel as well as 
irregular veins and patches of chert occur in the uppermost 5 m. Opaque black chert occupies the 
centre of patches and veins, whereas translucent black chert forms a c. 3 mm-wide zone along the 
typically cuspate contact (Fig. 11a). Basalt is succeeded by sedimentary rocks, including laminated 
black chert and a massive conglomerate that consists of silicified basalt pebbles in a matrix of 
translucent chert. Pebbles show marginal chert replacement, and some chert veining opened up the 
original clast-supported fabric. The conglomerate is overlain by a succession of banded, laminated 
and massive, grey and black cherts that include stratiform veins. Cross-cutting black chert veins 
transect this unit and the underlying conglomerate and partly brecciate it (Fig. 11b). Rock 
fragments show evidence of marginal replacement by chert and are frequently surrounded by 
translucent chert rims. The chert sequence is overlain by poorly exposed komatiitic basalt, a 
sheared unit of banded black chert, and a prominent horizon of fuchsitic chert with numerous 
irregular chert veins and patches. 
Interpretation: Banded chert horizons represent silicified sediments that were laid down in between 
submarine volcanic activity. Deposition took place in a low-energy, sub-wave base setting with 
episodic, high-energy current events that resulted in the deposition of conglomerate beds. Many 
black chert veins and dykes formed after lithification of the banded cherts, resulting in fracturing 
and brecciation. The veins are considered to be of hydrothermal origin, as indicated by the 
geometry of the fracture pattern and the replacement of both volcanic and sedimentary host rocks. 
Chert veining associated with brecciation of bedded cherts is a result of fracturing of the 
impermeable barrier horizon allowing ponded, overpressured fluids to pass through. 
 
 
16

--- Page 20 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Simplified stratigraphic sections of chert horizon K3c at the top of the Kromberg 
Formation in the central study area (localities 5 and 6, Fig. 3) and on Josefsdal farm (locality 7, 
Fig. 1). 
 
 
 
Figure 11. (a) Amoeboidal patches of black chert in massive silicified basalt. Note the rim of 
translucent chert along basalt contacts (arrow). (b) Basalt pebble conglomerate transected and 
brecciated by black chert dykes. Some breccia fragments show evidence of marginal replacement 
by black chert (arrow). 
 
17

--- Page 21 ---
 
 
 
Josefsdal farm 
 
Description: Silicified volcanic rocks and banded cherts of the uppermost Kromberg Formation 
also crop out on Josefsdal farm (Fig. 1, locality 7) c. 12 km east-southeast of the previous study 
area. The section (Fig. 10) starts with laminated greenish-grey and black chert; some laminae 
contain accretionary lapilli. Stratiform black chert veins, some of which cross-cut bedding, are 
common at the top of the unit. Banded chert is overlain by a massive, greenish-grey chert, which 
represents silicified komatiitic basalt (Hofmann, unpubl. data). Millimetre-wide, discontinuous 
veins of translucent chert give rise to a lenticular fabric (Fig. 12a). Irregular veins (Fig. 12b), dykes 
and patches of black chert are common in the uppermost few metres of the silicified basalt and 
increase in abundance upsection (Fig. 10). Near the top, veins can no longer be discerned, and 
carbonaceous chert surrounds basalt fragments (Fig. 12c). The irregular shape of some fragments is 
related to marginal replacement by black chert. Black chert reveals a fragmental texture when 
weathered. This texture is related to silt- to fine pebble-sized, angular to rounded, probably mostly 
wall rock fragments. 
     Chert-veined basalt is succeeded by parallel-laminated, carbonaceous grey chert. The contact is 
very sharp; the underlying chert does not cut through it, except for a later generation of translucent 
chert veins. A bed of massive basalt pebble conglomerate occurs near the base of the sedimentary 
sequence (Fig. 10) and is infiltrated by botryoidal chert; chert clasts are absent. A second bed of 
massive conglomerate (Fig. 10) comprises clast-supported, very well-rounded pebbles and cobbles 
of grey chert. The sedimentary sequence is transected by a network of mostly bedding-parallel 
veins of black chert (Fig. 12d). Veins below the conglomerate frequently contain clasts derived 
from this bed. 
     Patches of grey chert and basalt-clast breccia occur in the uppermost part of the basalt sequence 
(Fig. 12a). A similar breccia exists as a dyke filling in the overlying sedimentary sequence. The 
breccia consists of angular chert clasts and rounded chert fragments, the latter derived from chert- 
pebble conglomerate. 
     In thin section, banded chert consists of a silicified clay-/siltstone with detrital quartz and 
disseminated, somewhat compacted, very fine sand-sized carbonaceous grains (Fig. 6f). Vein chert 
in basalt consists predominantly of tightly packed, fine sand-sized carbonaceous grains. 
 
 
18

--- Page 22 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 12. (a) Silicified basalt with translucent chert veins (arrows). Breccia of silicified basalt 
and chert fragments (left centre) probably represents a fissure filling. (b) Thin black chert veins 
transecting silicified basalt. (c) Black chert-veined and brecciated silicified basalt. Note local 
replacement of basalt by black chert (arrow). (d) Grey banded chert brecciated by thin black chert 
veins. Some chert veins contain rounded clasts derived from an overlying chert conglomerate bed. 
 
Interpretation: Stratiform chert veins at the chert-basalt contact suggest minor fluid flow along this 
contact after deposition of the lava flow. Hydrothermal activity was, however, much more 
pronounced along the contact with the overlying banded chert and resulted in much of the basalt 
being fractured and replaced. 
     The association of chert-pebble conglomerate and veins filled with rounded chert clasts has been 
described by Paris et al. (1985) and Stanistreet and Hughes (1984), who regarded such rocks as 
pseudoconglomerates that formed as discordant subsurface breccia bodies during exhalative 
processes. This and similar conglomerate bodies are more likely of sedimentary origin, because 
they form continuous beds and sometimes show grading. Rounding of the clasts took place in a 
"normal" sedimentary environment and not as a result of mechanical wear during hydrothermal 
transport. The presence of rounded chert fragments in discordant veins has been explained by Lowe 
(1999a) as a result of early brecciation of the cherty sediment and filling of the fractures by debris 
from overlying, still unlithified conglomerate beds. Lowe (1999a) noted that the absence of 
fragments of underlying rock in the breccias and of breccias intrusive into overlying units indicate 
that they were not formed by upward fluid flow. Brecciation has been attributed to exposure and 
desiccation or hydrofracturing during sediment dewatering, either as a result of compaction or 
boiling of interstitial waters during the deposition of overlying lavas (Lowe, 1999a). It is more 
likely that brecciation is a result of syndepositional hydrothermal activity that resulted in the 
formation of fractures that were then infilled by partly unconsolidated sediments. Fissures that are 
filled with brecciated host-rock material must have formed some time after deposition and 
 
19

--- Page 23 ---
 
 
lithification of the banded cherts, because they lack carbonaceous chert fillings, and probably 
represent hydrothermal breccia dykes. Similar breccia dykes have locally been observed at the 
Onverwacht-Fig Tree contact, where they contain fragments derived from stratigraphically 
underlying units (Hofmann, unpubl. data). 
 
Barite Valley Syncline (BVS) 
 
Description: Sedimentary horizons, stratiform veins and cross-cutting dykes of carbonaceous cherts 
are common in the southern part of the BVS (Fig. 1, locality 8), where the contact between the 
Onverwacht and Fig Tree Group is well exposed (Fig. 13). The stratigraphy and sedimentology of 
Fig Tree strata in the BVS have been described by Heinrichs and Reimer (1977) and Lowe and 
Nocita (1999). As pointed out by Lowe and Byerly (2003), the BVS is not a true syncline, as the 
two limbs are separated by faulting and show a different stratigraphy. The strata of the two limbs 
are dipping steeply to the east-southeast (Fig. 13). Open to tight folding is common in the central 
part of the structure, and fold axes have a shallow to moderate plunge to the north-northeast. 
 
 
 
Figure 13. Geological map of the southern part of the Barite Valley Syncline and stratigraphic 
section of the western limb (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977; Lowe and Byerly, 2003; own mapping). A 
and B are localities discussed in the text. 
 
     On the west limb, the lowermost stratigraphic unit consists of intensely altered ultramafics, now 
represented by a fuchsite-chert-carbonate rock (Fig. 13). A sequence of banded black, grey and 
white chert overlies the volcanic rocks. When weathered, this unit has the appearance of silicified 
shale and siltstone. White-weathering translucent chert bands mostly represent stratiform veins. 
Numerous chert dykes cut through the sedimentary and underlying volcanic rock units. Banded 
chert is overlain, possibly along an erosional unconformity (Lowe and Byerly, 2003), by a 
lithologically complex unit of massive greenish-grey chert with mm-wide translucent chert veins, 
fine chert-pebble conglomerate and grit containing meteorite impact spherules (Lowe et al., 2003), 
and bedded barite intercalated with silicified sandstones. Chert dykes do not penetrate this unit. 
This is overlain by interstratified silicified sandstone, fine chert-pebble conglomerate, barite, and 
jaspilite, followed by parallel-laminated tuffaceous sandstone, siltstone and shale. The relationships 
discussed below refer to the west limb of the BVS. 
 
20

--- Page 24 ---
 
 
     Chert dykes are up to 3 m wide, relatively tabular and extend for at least 250 m downsection. 
They dip steeply to the south-southwest and terminate along a greenish-grey chert horizon that is 
situated immediately below the impact spherule and barite beds. This chert horizon contains 
abundant diffuse patches of black translucent chert. 
     Metre-scale chert dykes are frequently composite dyke-in-dyke structures (Fig. 14a) and consist 
of discrete generations of dyke fillings, thus showing a crude layering subparallel to the dyke walls. 
They are filled with massive carbonaceous chert, botryoidal chert and a common carbonaceous 
chert variety that, when weathered, reveals a fragmental texture. This texture is related to the 
presence of mostly granule- to pebble-sized (but from silt to cobble-sized), angular- to well- 
rounded, silicified clasts that float in the chert matrix. The fragments are compositionally similar to 
the immediate dyke host rock. Some fragments show evidence of in situ brecciation by thin chert 
veining, as indicated by the preservation of a jigsaw fit (Fig. 14b). Black chert fragments also occur 
and they most likely represent fragments of an earlier chert dyke generation. Although most clasts 
are angular, some are subangular to well rounded, so that some dyke fills resemble matrix-
supported conglomerates. Mutual cross-cutting relationships between different generations of 
carbonaceous and botryoidal translucent cherts are common. Dyke walls are sometimes irregular, 
suggesting marginal chert replacement. Patches of translucent chert occur in some carbonaceous 
chert dykes in between the fragments, suggesting incomplete filling of dykes at times. 
     Bedding-parallel chert veins that locally branch off the dykes (Fig. 14c) are common in silicified 
sediments. These veins are up to 0.5 m wide and transect and brecciate the host rock subparallel to 
bedding. Stepping of chert dykes and veins both vertically and laterally is common (Fig. 15). At 
one locality a black chert dyke occurs that cuts through bedding at a low angle; black chert is finely 
laminated parallel to the dyke wall. 
     Several dykes, irrespective of the nature of the immediate wall rock, contain equant to tabular, 
angular to rounded pebbles of black, slightly translucent chert in a matrix of carbonaceous chert. 
One dyke that cuts across banded chert contains angular fragments of the host rock that are 
surrounded by a 5 mm-wide rim of botryoidal chert, resulting in a more rounded shape of the 
fragments (Fig. 14d). The same dyke, 1.5 m downsection, contains spherical pebbles of translucent 
chert that are rimmed by botryoidal chert, with the same shape and size as the chert-rimmed angular 
clasts (Fig. 14e). 
     At location A (Fig. 13), a swarm of densely spaced chert dykes transects the base of the 
sedimentary sequence, which contains abundant jaspilite beds in otherwise black and white banded 
chert in a zone ≥ 4 m thick. The dykes contain jaspilite fragments where they cut the jaspilite-
bearing horizon, but jaspilite fragments also occur stratigraphically below the horizon. 
Furthermore, jaspilitic cherts are cross-cut by small veins of black chert both parallel and 
perpendicular to bedding; the banded cherts are frequently replaced along the margin of these veins 
(Fig. 14f). Approximately 10 m below the impact spherule layer at locality B (Fig. 13) occur 
spherules in several black chert dykes in a bedding-parallel, poorly exposed zone with a minimum 
lateral extent of 10 m and a thickness of c. 3 m. The spherules either float in black chert or form 
rock fragments composed entirely of spherules. 
 
 
21

--- Page 25 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 14. (a) Chert dyke consisting of botryoidal chert at the margin and a later fill of 
carbonaceous chert in the centre. (b) Chert dyke containing fragments of silicified sedimentary host 
rock in a black chert matrix. Some fragments have been fractured by thin chert veins after being 
incorporated into the dyke (arrows). (c) Dyke of massive black chert that transects silicified 
sedimentary rocks and branches into a stratiform vein upsection. Stratigraphic way-up is to the top. 
Picture taken on east limb of the Barite Valley Syncline. (d) Angular fragments of silicified 
sedimentary rock that are rimmed by translucent, laminated and somewhat botryoidal chert, 
resulting in a more rounded shape of the fragments. (e) Angular to rounded pebbles of black 
translucent chert in a fragmental black chert matrix. Pebbles are rimmed by megaquartz. (f) 
Banded jaspilitic chert intruded and partly replaced (arrows) by black chert. 
 
 
22

--- Page 26 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 15. Field relationships between silicified sedimentary rocks (bedding is indicated) and 
intrusive veins and dykes of massive carbonaceous chert. Scale bars are 10 cm long. 
 
     Bedded carbonaceous cherts represent silicified siltstones and claystones that contain remnants 
of silt-sized quartz grains. Carbonaceous matter occurs in the form of slightly compacted, 
ellipsoidal grains in the very fine sand-size range. Chert dykes contain abundant silt to coarse sand-
sized, equant carbonaceous grains admixed with some angular, chert-replaced clasts, representing 
either detrital grains or wall-rock fragments. 
Interpretation: Chert dykes and veins are interpreted to have been initiated by hydrothermal 
processes, on the basis of similar arguments presented earlier, such as fracturing of the wall rocks, 
geometry of the chert-filled fractures, multiple dyke fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier 
generations of dyke fillings, marginal replacement of wall rock and wall-rock fragments, and the 
presence of botryoidal chert. Furthermore, the presence of vertical dykes that branch into bedding-
parallel veins, and the presence of dykes with a parallel laminar fabric that are at an angle to 
bedding indicate that the dyke system cannot be regarded as simple open fissures that were infilled 
with sedimentary material from above. 
     Rounding of wall-rock fragments is a common observation in the chert dykes. It has been shown 
that rounding can be a result of marginal replacement of angular fragments and that many chert 
pebbles represent completely replaced wall-rock fragments. Rounding of fragments in 
hydrothermal breccias is commonly observed and may be a result of mechanical abrasion during 
movement in the fluid, or, as it is the case here, be a result of corrosive wear, i.e., the marginal 
dissolution of fragments (Jebrak, 1997). It cannot always be ascertained if rock fragments in chert 
dykes were derived from the immediate wall rock, including an earlier chert generation of the dyke 
fillings, or from rocks stratigraphically above or below the position they occur. The presence of 
jaspilite fragments and impact spherules in dykes below beds that contain such material suggests 
some downward movement (see also Lowe and Byerly, 1986). In most cases, however, the 
fragments are derived from the immediate wall rocks and appear not to have travelled far up- or 
downsection. 
     Chert dykes do not penetrate a laterally persistent horizon of greenish-grey chert and extend into 
the overlying conglomerate and barite beds. This contact has been regarded as possibly 
unconformable, and it may thus be plausible that the termination of the chert dykes, if regarded to 
be of syndepositional origin, is a result of erosion down to that contact. However, a similar 
relationship exists on the east limb, where chert dykes stop along a chert horizon along which there 
is no evidence for an erosional contact. Furthermore, chert dykes are not terminated sharply, but 
rather lose their geometry to form diffuse patches of black chert in green chert. These relationships 
suggest that the chert dykes terminated at a stratigraphic level of early silicified sediments that were 
impermeable for the hydrothermal fluids. The chert dykes are not vertical, but dip steeply to the 
north-northeast, which is probably related to the north-northeast plunge of the fold structure, 
suggesting that they formed in a vertical orientation. 
     The field relationships in the BVS do not clearly permit identification of the exact timing of the 
hydrothermal activity. However, it has to be kept in mind that the sedimentary sequence above the 
chert dykes contains several beds of barite. The beds are interpreted to consist of detrital barite that 
 
23

--- Page 27 ---
 
 
was eroded from hydrothermal barite deposits elsewhere (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977). 
Hydrothermal barite is commonly associated with chert dykes in the Pilbara Craton (Nijman et al., 
1999), possibly suggesting a genetic link between chert dykes and reworked barite, i.e., 
syndepositional hydrothermal activity. 
 
Msauli Chert 
 
The Onverwacht-Fig Tree contact is locally occupied by a chert unit that consists of silicified beds 
of accretionary lapilli, termed the Msauli Chert. Two sections have been studied in detail, the type 
section in the Msauli gorge and a section situated in the central study area. 
     In the Msauli gorge (Fig. 1, locality 9), the section starts with a lenticular-banded, fuchsite-
chert-carbonate rock (Fig. 16a) that represents altered ultramafic rocks of the Mendon Formation. 
The volcanic rocks are sharply overlain by the Msauli Chert, which, in the lower part, consists of 
thinly interbedded green and black carbonaceous chert. This unit is overlain by accretionary lapilli-
bearing, normally graded and rarely cross-stratified beds intercalated with laminated green chert 
(Heinrichs, 1984; Lowe, 1999b). The Msauli Chert and underlying volcanic rocks are transected by 
massive carbonaceous and botryoidal translucent chert veins and dykes mostly parallel and 
perpendicular to bedding (Fig. 16a). In most cases, stratiform veins consist of botryoidal chert and 
formed later than the carbonaceous chert dykes. Some dykes are represented by a network of mm- 
to cm-scale veins that surround angular host-rock fragments, with large fragments being unrotated 
and almost in situ. Other dykes show an irregular lamination parallel to the dyke walls (Fig. 16b). 
They may contain elongate fragments of wall rock that are aligned parallel to the lamination. The 
Msauli Chert is overlain by c. 5 m of rather massive, but poorly exposed, carbonaceous chert, 
followed by variably silicified graphitic shale. No chert dykes were observed that cut the shale unit. 
Microfossil-like features showing apparent cell division have been reported from carbonaceous 
rocks of the Msauli Chert (Knoll and Barghoorn, 1977). 
     An additional outcrop of Msauli Chert has been investigated c. 5 km east of the previous section 
in the central study area (Fig. 3, locality 10). The stratigraphy of the Msauli Chert and associated 
rocks is very similar, although the whole unit is locally tectonically duplicated due to low-angle 
faulting (not shown on map). The exposed section starts with a schistose fuchsite-chert-carbonate 
rock containing abundant, mostly foliation-parallel veins of botryoidal chert (1-30 cm wide). 
Layers (5-30 cm thick) with undeformed spinifex textures indicate a komatiite parentage for the 
rocks. The altered ultramafics are overlain by c. 20 m of interbedded lapillistone and green chert 
(Msauli Chert). The Msauli Chert is transected and brecciated by carbonaceous and botryoidal chert 
veins that are mostly subparallel to bedding. Some chert veins are exactly parallel to bedding and 
are filled with chert that may show a parallel laminar fabric (Fig. 16c). The uppermost 1-2 m of the 
Msauli Chert is strongly brecciated by a network of bedding-parallel veins of botryoidal chert. The 
chert penetrates lapillistone along the margin and either displaces individual lapilli outwards or 
replaces the finer-grained matrix material so that originally densely packed lapilli become matrix-
supported in black chert (Fig. 16d). The Msauli Chert is overlain by c. 10 m of banded black and 
white chert. Some chert layers are well banded, whereas other layers are faintly laminated to 
massive and may represent stratiform veins. Bedding-parallel botryoidal chert veins are present. In 
addition, there are cross-cutting black chert dykes, although they are not as common and/or easy to 
detect as in the underlying Msauli Chert. A chert-pebble conglomerate is intercalated with massive 
black chert near the top of the section. This bed is invaded by translucent chert, which results in the 
clast-supported fabric being opened up. The conglomerate becomes sheared out laterally, although 
there is no clear shear fabric in either the conglomerate or the black chert. However, black chert 
contains silicified, poorly visible clasts that are probably derived from conglomerate, indicating that 
some of the material may have been replaced by chert. The chert unit is overlain by shales of the 
Fig Tree Group, although the contact is not exposed at this locality. 
 
 
24

--- Page 28 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 16. (a) Lenticular-banded, altered ultramafic rock transected by carbonaceous and 
botryoidal chert dykes and veins. (b) The Msauli Chert is cut by carbonaceous chert dykes (1) at an 
angle to bedding. Some dykes show a crude stratification parallel to the dyke walls (arrow). A later 
vein of black botryoidal chert (2) transects the rock subparallel to bedding. (c) Black chert vein 
intrusive into parallel-stratified Msauli Chert. The chert vein shows a fine lamination parallel to 
the vein walls (arrow). (d) Lapillistone transected by botryoidal chert veins. Note that chert 
infiltrates the lapillistone along the vein margin and displaces individual lapilli outwards (arrows). 
 
Interpretation: Both carbonaceous and botryoidal cherts are interpreted as hydrothermal fracture 
fillings that formed during the same hydrothermal event, although botryoidal chert frequently, but 
not always, formed later. The presence of wall-rock fragments aligned parallel to a commonly 
developed layering in the dykes indicate that the dykes and their stratification is a result of multiple 
chert injections. The fracture pattern and brecciation of the uppermost part of the Msauli Chert in 
the central study area suggests a hydraulic fracturing mechanism, with the hydrothermal fluids 
again concentrated below a lithological contact. Translucent chert invaded lapillistone and 
conglomerate beds and there is evidence that this invasion may have led locally to "delithification", 
as in the case of accretionary lapilli becoming entrained in the chert. The parallel laminar fabric of 
some bedding-parallel chert veins is probably a compaction or foliation feature, which could easily 
be confused with a sedimentary structure. There is evidence for shearing along massive black chert 
units, as indicated by deformation of one conglomerate horizon, suggesting that massive black chert 
horizons may host cryptic bedding-parallel shear zones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25

--- Page 29 ---
 
 
Central Study Area, Fig Tree-Onverwacht Contact 
 
Description: The contact between the Fig Tree Group and tectonically overlying Onverwacht 
Group  is represented by a shear zone (Granville Grove Fault of Lowe and Byerly, 1999), along 
which the sedimentary and volcanic rocks have been silicified to black chert. The uppermost 
exposed sedimentary rocks of the Fig Tree Group, which are characterized by a homogeneous 
sequence of parallel-laminated and rarely cross-bedded, fine-grained sandstone, are silicified to 
finely banded, grey-weathering, relatively opaque black chert (Fig. 17a). Thin veins of massive 
black chert, up to 5 cm wide, cross-cut the lamination locally. Silicification took place in an at least 
30 m-wide alteration zone beneath the contact with tectonically overlying pillow basalts of the 
Mendon Formation. On average, silicification intensifies towards the contact, although stratiform 
horizons of only poorly silicified sedimentary rocks may occur within the alteration zone. 
 
 
 
Figure 17. (a) Parallel- and cross-laminated carbonaceous chert c.15 m below the shear zone. 
Stratigraphic way-up is to the right. (b) Silicified pillow basalt consisting predominantly of massive 
black chert. 
 
Near the contact the silicified sedimentary rocks become complexly folded, ferruginized and 
intercalated with sheared shaley gossans that contain some scattered chert lenses. The contact itself 
is a 1 m-wide, highly strained gossan that shows an anastomosing foliation and a mylonitic fabric. 
The shear zone is overlain by a c. 30 m-thick zone of altered volcanic rocks, mostly pillow basalts, 
which are completely replaced by chert locally (Fig. 17b). Silicified volcanic rocks consist of black 
chert with fragments and diffuse patches of green chert. Silicification of the volcanic rocks is not 
continuous along the contact, and pillow basalt may be carbonated or Fe-oxide impregnated at other 
localities. 
     In thin section, silicified sandstone consists predominantly of chert with many silt- to fine sand-
sized quartz grains that withstood alteration to chert. Carbonaceous matter is absent, whereas 
disseminated idiomorphic sulphide grains do occur. Silicified basalt consists almost totally of chert 
that is present as angular fragments and matrix. Disseminated clots of carbonaceous matter are rare. 
Interpretation: The shear zone is a result of thrusting of Onverwacht Group rocks onto Fig Tree 
strata. That Fig Tree rocks were silicified adjacent to the shear zone is indicated by: (1) 
discontinuous or variably intense silicification of rocks adjacent to the shear zone vertically; (2) 
similar lithological attributes of the silicified sedimentary rocks compared to the underlying rocks 
(e.g., homogeneous coloration and lamination style); and (3) clear younging indicators in silicified 
rocks immediately below the shear zone. There is no evidence for a shear zone below the silicified 
rocks and that these cherts are part of an older chert sequence that was brought into place by 
folding (e.g., Lowe et al., 1999). Silicification of the overlying volcanic rocks is also related to the 
contact, because it intensifies downsection towards the contact. The alteration of sedimentary and 
 
26

--- Page 30 ---
 
 
volcanic rocks to chert along an unequivocal shear zone indicates that the alteration is a result of 
hydrothermal fluids that were channelled along the shear zone. Ferruginization of chert, and the 
shearing and brecciation in the gossaneous zone must have taken place after silicification. The 
gossan is a result of sulphide weathering, and the sulphides were probably introduced during 
reactivation of the shear zone during a later deformation event. 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
Carbonaceous cherts in the BGB span a time interval of more than 200 Ma. Despite this, they share 
very similar lithological attributes and relationships to surrounding rocks, suggesting that they 
formed by a common process. Sedimentary chert horizons are very continuous laterally. They 
always overlie volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks that are silicified in the uppermost few tens of 
metres. Geochemical evidence has been presented that this silicification is a result of low-
temperature (≤ ~150 °C) hydrothermal processes. Seawater, which was close to saturation with 
respect to amorphous silica (Siever, 1992), is thought to have circulated through the seafloor 
volcanics. The heat for convection was probably provided by a high regional heat flow during the 
early and mid-Archaean (Hofmann, 2005b). Precipitation of silica took place as a result of a 
decrease in silica solubility, when diffusely upflowing hydrothermal fluids came into contact with 
seawater near the seafloor. This resulted in the silicification of volcanic rocks close to the seafloor 
and the silicification of overlying biogeneous and tuffaceous sediments near the sediment-water 
interface (Hofmann, 2005b). Both rock types were affected by very similar chemical alteration 
processes, which resulted in the formation of very similar textural features. For example, 
translucent chert veins are a characteristic feature of altered ultramafic rocks, such as those 
underlying the Msauli Chert (Fig. 16a). The same veinlets are common in silicified rocks of 
ultramafic composition throughout the volcano-sedimentary sequence, including the massive green 
cherts in H3c that represent komatiitic tuffs. It also needs to be emphasized that alteration and 
silicification involved a variety of rocks types, including ultramafic volcaniclastic deposits below 
chert horizon K1c1, and dacite-derived conglomerates and sandstones below the Buck Reef Chert. 
The protolith did, therefore, not play a role for alteration zones to develop. Important was the 
presence of sedimentary chert beds overlying these zones. 
      Chert dykes play an important role in the understanding of the hydrothermal processes 
involved, because they provide evidence that these processes took place just below the seafloor and 
not during much later, post-burial hydrothermal activity. Carbonaceous matter in the chert dykes is 
petrographically identical to the kerogen in the sedimentary horizons. The presence of certain clasts 
admixed with the kerogen in the dykes, which were derived from overlying beds (such as impact 
spherules, Lowe and Byerly, 1986), suggests that the bulk of the carbonaceous matter was derived 
from sedimentary material that accumulated on the seafloor. The dykes do, therefore, not represent 
hydrothermal feeder channels for the sedimentary cherts, in a way analogous to modern seafloor 
hot spring deposits. But, neither can they be regarded as simple fissures that were filled by 
carbonaceous sedimentary material. Many veins contain angular host-rock fragments and show 
hydraulic fracture patterns, suggesting that they were initiated by the forceful intrusion of over-
pressured hydrothermal fluids. Observations, such as branching of dykes into stratiform veins, wall- 
rock replacement, multiple-dyke fillings, and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of dyke 
fillings, supports this view. 
     But how did the hydrothermal systems become over-pressured when they formed close to the 
seafloor? This can be explained by early silicification of seafloor sediments by hydrothermal 
activity. Syndepositional silicification of sedimentary deposits resulted in the formation of 
impermeable pathways for ascending hydrothermal fluids. Buildup of fluid pressure beneath the 
cap rocks resulted in ponding of hydrothermal fluids and breaching and brecciation of the cap rocks 
at times. This resulted in the formation of fractures in the alteration zones that were then infilled by 
not yet silicified carbonaceous sedimentary material overlying the silica caps, giving rise to the 
formation of carbonaceous chert dykes and veins. Ponding of hydrothermal fluids is indicated by 
 
27

--- Page 31 ---
 
 
the dramatic increase of chert veins immediately below sedimentary chert units (e.g., below the 
Buck Reef Chert). Breaching of the cap rocks, on the other hand, is evidenced by the occurrence of 
veins and dykes within, and the local brecciation of, the sedimentary chert horizons (e.g., at the top 
of the Kromberg Formation). The model presented here for the origin of the chert dykes is broadly 
similar to the one presented by Lowe and Byerly (1986). However, it emphasizes the importance of 
subseafloor hydrothermal processes, not only for the origin of the chert dykes, but also for the 
silicification of the overlying chert beds. Lowe (1999a), Knauth and Lowe (2003) and Tice and 
Lowe (2004) argued for a diagenetic origin of the early silicification, unrelated to hydrothermal 
activity. 
     Not all chert veins consist of carbonaceous sediment that was entrained into hydraulic fractures. 
Many veins consist of pure chert instead, and many of these show botryoidal features and cavity-
filling megaquartz, suggesting that the chert precipitated out of hydrothermal fluids. Such veins are 
typically stratiform and are probably related to fluid overpressure. Fluid pressure must have 
exceeded the pressure from the overlying sediment and water column at times, which resulted in 
the opening of fractures oriented parallel to the seafloor. These fractures were then filled by 
hydrothermal chert and quartz. When breaching of the cap rocks took place, sedimentary material 
was able to become entrained in the stratiform veins locally. Because many stratiform botryoidal 
chert veins postdate carbonaceous chert dykes, this type of process took place relatively late in the 
evolution of the hydrothermal systems, possibly because of the increase in the thickness of the 
capping cherts with time. Many modern subaerial hydrothermal deposits are characterized by 
extensive breccia deposits which form during hydrothermal eruptions in active geothermal fields 
(Browne and Lawless, 2001). The complete absence of such deposits in the BGB may suggest that 
water depths during deposition of many sedimentary cherts were not as shallow as assumed by 
many authors (Lanier and Lowe, 1982; Lowe, 1999a). 
     Besides the filling of hydrothermal veins, a few carbonaceous chert veins formed differently. 
Some carbonaceous chert beds did not become lithified before being buried by overlying strata. 
Rapid burial or earthquake shock may have resulted in sediment fluidization and mobilization of 
carbon-bearing gelatinous silica to form cross-cutting veins, as observed in the upper part of H3c. 
Carbonaceous cherts of the Buck Reef Chert, that show soft-sediment deformation features, may 
have been affected by similar processes. 
     Not all of the silicification was associated with hydrothermal processes on and below the 
seafloor. Instead, a variety of rocks situated adjacent to the Granville Grove Fault became silicified 
too. This type of silicification is best ascribed to hydrothermal fluids that were channelled along the 
shear zone. Disturbing is that such rocks are compositionally very similar to the other chert types. 
This means that care needs to be taken when using chert horizons as stratigraphic marker horizons, 
because they may have formed in the vicinity of shear zones. 
     Carbonaceous matter in the dykes was probably derived from the overlying sedimentary 
horizons. This is supported by very similar petrographic characteristics as well as geochemical and 
isotopic data (Hofmann, unpubl. data). The origin of the kerogen is not known and a matter of 
much debate. Shales and turbiditic greywackes of the Fig Tree Group in the northern part of the 
belt contain carbonaceous matter in similar proportions to the cherts (Reimer, 1975); carbon isotope 
data are also similar and are indicative of biological fractionation processes (Hayes et al., 1983; 
Walsh and Lowe, 1999; Hofmann, unpubl. data). Because mat-like carbon accumulations are rare, 
most of the carbonaceous matter probably settled out of the water column and may have originally 
formed in the shallow part of the Archaean ocean, possibly by modern pelagic organisms. Although 
the possibility that the carbon was derived from abiologically produced organics in the water 
column cannot be discounted, an organic origin appears far more plausible. Beside the ubiquitous 
kerogen clots and the more rare mat-like accumulations, secondary carbonaceous matter was 
observed in the pore space of carbonaceous chert at one locality (Fig. 6d). The origin of this 
material is not clear and it may represent the remains of degraded hydrocarbons. 
     This study highlights the importance of detailed field work prior to sampling of carbonaceous 
cherts for micropalaeontological or chemical analyses. Chert dykes are generally easy to distinguish 
 
28

--- Page 32 ---
 
 
from bedded sedimentary cherts, because of their cross-cutting geometry. Much more difficult to 
distinguish are stratiform veins in bedded chert host rocks, especially in areas of poor exposure. 
This is particularly difficult when they show layering, which can be very similar to sedimentary 
bedding. Furthermore, replacement of sedimentary rocks by chert is common in the vicinity of 
chert dykes. In addition, many translucent chert bands are secondary, and when present in stratified 
cherts, are very difficult to distinguish from primary chert precipitates. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ho 2507/1–1/2), Stichting 
Schürmannfonds (2003–2004/13), and the University of the Witwatersrand Research Committee. I 
am grateful to Johan Eksteen, Mpumalanga Parks Board, and Colin Wille, Taurus Estate, for access 
and hospitality. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
Anhaeusser, C.R., 1976. The geology of the Sheba Hills area of the Barberton Mountain Land, 
South Africa, with particular reference to the Eureka syncline. Trans. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 79, 
253-280. 
Armstrong, R.A., Compston, W., De Wit, M.J., Williams, I.S., 1990. The stratigraphy of the 3.5–
3.2 Ga Barberton greenstone belt revisited: a single zircon ion microprobe study. Earth 
Planet. Sci. Lett., 101, 90–106. 
Awramik, S.M., Schopf, J.W., Walter, M.R., 1983. Filamentous fossil bacteria from the Archean of 
Western Australia. Precambrian Res., 20, 357–374. 
Brasier, M.D., Green, O.R., Jephcoat, A. P., Kleppe, A.K., Van Kranendonk, M.J., Lindsay, J.F., 
Steele, A., Grassineau, N.V., 2002. Questioning the evidence for Earth´s oldest fossils. 
Nature, 416, 76–81. 
Browne, P.R.L., Lawless, J.V., 2001. Characteristics of hydrothermal eruptions, with examples 
from New Zealand and elsewhere. Earth Sci. Rev., 52, 299–331. 
Byerly, G. R., Lowe, D. R., Wooden, J. L., Xie, X., 2002. An Archean impact layer from the 
Pilbara and Kaapvaal cratons. Science, 297, 1325–1327. 
Byerly, G.R., Kröner, A., Lowe, D.R., Todt, W., Walsh, M.M., 1996. Prolonged magmatism and 
time constraints for sediment deposition in the early Archean Barberton greenstone belt: 
evidence from the Upper Onverwacht and Fig Tree groups. Precambrian Res., 78, 125–138. 
Compston, W., Kröner, A., 1988. Multiple zircon growth within early Archaean tonalitic gneiss 
from the Ancient Gneiss Complex, Swaziland. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 87, 13–28. 
Condie K. C., Macke J. E., Reimer T. O., 1970 Petrology and geochemistry of early Precambrian 
greywackes from the Fig Tree Group, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., 81, 2759–2776. 
De Wit, M.J., 1982. Gliding and overthrust nappe tectonics in the Barberton greenstone belt. J. 
Struct. Geol., 4, 117–136. 
De Wit, M.J., Hart, R.J., Martin, A., Abbott, P., 1982. Archaean abiogenic and probable biogenic 
structures associated with mineralized hydrothermal vent systems and regional 
metasomatism, with implications for greenstone belt studies. Econ. Geol., 77, 1783–1802. 
Duchac, K.C., Hanor, J.S., 1987. Origin and timing of metasomatic silicification of an early 
Archean komatiite sequence, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 
37, 125–146. 
Eriksson, K.A., 1980. Hydrodynamic and paleogeographic interpretation of turbidite deposits from 
the Archean Fig Tree Group of the Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. 
Amer., 91, 21–26. 
Garcia-Ruiz, J.M., Hyde, S.T., Carnerup, A.M., Christy, A.G., Van Kranendonk, M.J., Welham, 
N.J., 2003. Self-assembled silica-carbonate structures and detection of ancient microfossils. 
Science, 302, 1194–1197. 
 
29

--- Page 33 ---
 
 
Hanor, J.S., Duchac, K.C., 1990. Isovolumetric silicification of early Archean komatiites: 
geochemical mass balances and constraints on origin. J. Geol., 98, 863–877. 
Hayes, J.M., Kaplan I.R., Wedeking, K.W., 1983. Precambrian organic chemistry, preservation of 
the record. In: Schopf, J.W. (Ed.), Earth’s Earliest Biosphere – its Origin and Evolution. 
Princeton University Press, New Jersey, pp. 93–134. 
Heinrichs, T., 1980. Lithostratigraphische Untersuchungen in der Fig Tree Gruppe des Barberton 
Greenstone Belt zwischen Umsoli und Lomati (Südafrika). Göttinger Arbeiten zur Geologie 
und Paläontologie, 22, 118 pp. 
Heinrichs, T., 1984. The Umsoli chert, turbidite testament for a major phreatoplinian event at the 
Onverwacht/Fig Tree transition (Swaziland Supergroup, Archaean, South Africa). 
Precambrian Res., 24, 237–283. 
Heinrichs, T.K., Reimer, T.O., 1977. A sedimentary barite deposit from the Archean Fig Tree 
Group of the Barberton Mountain Land (South Africa). Econ. Geol.,72, 1426–1441. 
Hofmann, A., 2005a. The geochemistry of shales and cherts from the Fig Tree Group, Barberton 
greenstone belt: implications for tectonic, hydrothermal and surface processes during mid-
Archaean times. Precambrian Res. (submitted). 
Hofmann, A., 2005b. Stratiform alteration zones in the Barberton greenstone belt: a window into 
subseafloor processes 3.5–3.3 Ga ago. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett. (submitted). 
Horita, J., Berndt, M.E., 1999. Abiogenic methane formation and isotopic fractionation under 
hydrothermal conditions. Science, 285, 1055–1057. 
Jebrak, M., 1997. Hydrothermal breccias in vein-type ore deposits: A review of mechanisms, 
morphology and size distribution. Ore Geol. Rev., 12, 111–134. 
Kamo, S.L., Davis, D.W., 1994. Reassessment of Archean crustal development in the Barberton 
Mountain Land, South Africa, based on U-Pb dating. Tectonics, 13, 167–192. 
Knauth, L.P., Lowe, D.R., 1978. Oxygen isotope geochemistry of cherts from the Onverwacht 
Group (3.4 billion years), Transvaal, South Africa with implications for secular variations in 
the isotopic compositions of cherts. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 41, 209–222. 
Knauth, L.P., Lowe, D.R., 2003. High Archean climatic temperatures inferred from oxygen isotope 
geochemistry of cherts in the 3.5 Ga Swaziland Supergroup, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. 
Amer., 115, 566–580. 
Knoll, A.H., Barghoorn, E.S., 1977. Archean microfossils showing cell division from the 
Swaziland System of South Africa. Science, 198, 396–398. 
Kohler, E. A. and Anhaeusser, C. R. (2002). Geology  and  geodynamic  setting  of Archaean silicic 
 
metavolcaniclastic rocks of the Bien Venue Formation, Fig Tree Group, northeast Barberton 
 
greenstone belt, South Africa.  Precambrian  Res., 116, 199-235.                                         
Kröner, A., Byerly, G.R., Lowe, D.R., 1991. Chronology of early Archaean granite-greenstone 
evolution in the Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa, based on precise dating by single 
zircon evaporation. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 103, 41–54. 
Lanier, W.P., Lowe, D.R., 1982. Sedimentology of the Middle Marker (3.4 Ga), Onverwacht 
Group, Transvaal, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 18, 237–260. 
Laznicka, P., 1988. Breccias and coarse fragmentites: petrology, environments, associations, ores. 
Developments in Econ. Geol. 25, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 832 pp. 
Lowe, D.R., 1999a. Petrology and sedimentology of cherts and related silicified sedimentary rocks 
in the Swaziland Supergroup. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of 
the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 83–114. 
Lowe, D. R., 1999b. Shallow-water sedimentation of accretionary lapilli-bearing strata of the 
Msauli Chert: Evidence of explosive hydro-magmatic komatiitic volcanism. In: Lowe, D.R., 
Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. 
Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 213–232. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 1986. Archean flow-top alteration zones formed initially in a low-
temperature sulphate-rich environment. Nature, 324, 245–248. 
 
30

--- Page 34 ---
 
 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 1999. Stratigraphy of the west-central part of the Barberton Greenstone 
Belt, South Africa. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the 
Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 1–36. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 2003. Field Guide to the Geology of the 3.5–3.2 Ga Barberton 
Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Guidebook prepared for Field Conference, Archean Surface 
Processes, June 23–July 2, 2003, 184 pp. 
Lowe, D.R., Fisher Worrel, G., 1999. Sedimentology, mineralogy, and implications of silicified 
evaporites in the Kromberg Formation, Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. In: Lowe, 
D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South 
Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 167–188. 
Lowe, D.R., Knauth, L.P., 1977. Sedimentology of the Onverwacht Group (3.4 billion years), 
Transvaal, South Africa, and its bearing on the characteristics and evolution of the early 
Earth. J. Geol., 85, 699–723. 
Lowe, D. R., Nocita, B.W., 1999. Foreland basin sedimentation in the Mapepe Formation, 
southern-facies Fig Tree Group. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of 
the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 233–258. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Heubeck, C., 1999. Structural divisions and development of the west-
central part of the Barberton greenstone belt. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic 
Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 
329, 37–82.  
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Ransom, B.L., Nocita, B.W., 1985. Stratigraphic and sedimentological 
evidence bearing on structural repetition in early Archaean rocks of the Barberton 
greenstone belt, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 27, 165–186. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Kyte, F., Shukolyukov, A., Asaro, F., Krull, A., 2003. Spherule beds 
3.47–3.24 billion years old in the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa: a record of large 
meteorite impacts and their influence on early crustal and biological evolution. 
Astrobiology, 3, 7–48. 
Mojzsis, S.J., Arrhenius, G., McKeegan, K.D., Harrison, T.M., Nutman, A.P., Friend, C.R.L., 1996. 
Evidence for life on Earth before 3,800 million years ago. Nature, 384, 55–59. 
Nijman, W., De Bruijne, K.C.H., Valkering, M.E., 1999. Growth fault control of Early Archaean 
cherts, barite mounds and chert-barite veins, North Pole Dome, Eastern Pilbara, Western 
Australia. Precambrian Res., 95, 247–274. 
Oehler, D.Z., Schopf, J.W., Kvenvolden, K.A., 1972. Carbon isotopic studies of organic matter in 
Precambrian rocks. Science, 175, 1246–1248. 
Paris, I.A., 1990. Depositional environment of the Onverwacht sedimentary rocks, Barberton 
greenstone belt, South Africa. J. Afr. Earth Sci., 10, 509–518. 
Paris, I., Stanistreet, I.G., Hughes, M.J., 1985. Cherts of the Barberton greenstone belt interpreted 
as products of submarine exhalative activity. J. Geol., 93, 111–129. 
Schidlowski, M., 1988. A 3800-million-year isotopic record of life from carbon in sedimentary 
rocks. Nature, 333, 313–318. 
Schopf, J.W., Walter, M.R., 1983. Archean microfossils: new evidence of ancient microbes. In: 
Schopf, J.W. (Ed.), Earth´s Earliest Biosphere: its Origin and Evolution. Princeton 
University Press, New Jersey, pp. 214–239. 
Schopf, J.W., Kudryavtsev, A. B., Agresti, D.G., Wdowiak, T.J., Czaja, A.D., 2002. Laser–Raman 
imagery of Earth´s earliest fossils. Nature, 416, 73–76. 
Siever, R., 1992. The silica cycle in the Precambrian. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 56, 
3265–3272. 
Stanistreet, I.G., Hughes, M.J., 1984. Pseudoconglomerate and a re-examination of some 
palaeoenvironmental controversies. Geology, 12, 717–719. 
Tice, M. M., Lowe, D.R., 2004. Photosynthetic microbial mats in the 3,416-Myr-old ocean. Nature, 
431, 549–552. 
 
31

--- Page 35 ---
 
 
Ueno, Y., Yoshioka, H., Maruyama, S., Isozaki, Y., 2004. Carbon isotopes and petrography of 
kerogens in ~3.5-Ga hydrothermal silica dikes in the North Pole area, Western Australia. 
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 68, 573–589. 
Van Zuilen, M.A., Lepland, A., Arrhenius, G., 2002. Reassessing the evidence for the earliest 
traces of life. Nature, 418, 627–629. 
Viljoen, R. P., Viljoen, M.J., 1969a. The geological and geochemical significance of the upper 
formations of the Onverwacht Group. Spec. Publ. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 2, 113–151. 
Viljoen, M.J., Viljoen, R.P., 1969b. An introduction to the geology of the Barberton granite-
greenstone terrain. Spec. Publ. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 2, 9–28. 
Walsh, M.M., 1992. Microfossils and possible microfossils from the early Archean Onverwacht 
Group, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 54, 271–293. 
Walsh, M.M., Lowe, D.R., 1985. Filamentous microfossils from the 3,500-Myr-old Onverwacht 
Group, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Nature, 314, 530–532. 
Walsh, M.M., Lowe, D.R., 1999. Modes of accumulation of carbonaceous matter in the Early 
Archean: a petrographic and geochemical study of the carbonaceous cherts of the Swaziland 
Supergroup. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton 
Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 115–132. 
Westall, F., De Wit, M. J., Dann, J. C., Van der Gaast, S., De Ronde, C. E. J., Gerneke, D. 2001. 
Early Archean fossil bacteria and biofilms in hydrothermally influenced sediments from the 
Barberton greenstone belt, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 106, 93–116. 
Williams, D.A.C., Furnell, R.G., 1979. Reassessment of part of the Barberton type area, South 
Africa. Precambrian Res., 9, 325–347. 
 
___________________oOo____________________ 
 
 
32

--- Page 0 ---
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC GEOLOGY 
RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
University of the Witwatersrand 
Johannesburg 
y
 
 
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS 
 IN THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT,  
SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
 
 
AXEL HOFMANN 
 
 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR No. 387 

--- Page 1 ---
UNIVERSITY OF THE WITWATERSRAND 
JOHANNESBURG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON  
GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AXEL HOFMANN 
 
(School of Geosciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Private Bag 3, 
 P.O. Wits 2050, Johannesburg, South Africa 
 
present address: School of Geological Sciences, Howard College Campus. 
 University of KwaZulu-Natal, 4041 Durban, South Africa) 
 
 email: hofmann@ukzn.ac.za 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC GEOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR No. 387 
 
 
January, 2005

--- Page 2 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The 3500-3200 Ma old volcano-sedimentary succession of the Barberton greenstone belt, South 
Africa, is characterized by lithological units that are repeated in a regular manner. Ultramafic to 
dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic sequences are typically capped by zones of silica enrichment, 
followed by beds of sedimentary cherts that are rich in carbonaceous matter. Cross-cutting 
carbonaceous chert dykes and veins are common in silica alteration zones and bedded cherts. A 
detailed field study of several chert horizons covering most of the stratigraphic succession of the 
Barberton belt revealed the importance of syndepositional hydrothermal activity for their origin. 
Bedded cherts consist of silicified sedimentary and tuffaceous material that was deposited on the 
seafloor. Silicification took place at the sediment-water interface, as a result of diffuse upflow of 
low-temperature hydrothermal fluids. This resulted in the formation of cap rocks impermeable for 
ascending hydrothermal fluids. Fluid overpressure resulted in the breaching of the cap rocks at 
times. Chert dykes contain angular host rock fragments, replace wall rocks, and show evidence of 
multiple dyke fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of dyke fillings. They represent 
hydraulic fractures that were initiated by overpressuring of the hydrothermal system. The resulting 
vein networks, in both volcanic and sedimentary rocks, were then infilled, partly by hydrothermal 
chert precipitates, and partly by still unconsolidated sedimentary material derived from overlying 
sedimentary horizons. Most carbonaceous matter represents sedimentary material and did not form 
by hydrothermal processes, which supports a biogenic origin. 
 
______________oOo______________ 

--- Page 3 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
GEOLOGICAL SETTING  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT -  
 
TERMINOLOGY AND REVIEW  
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Field Distribution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Composition  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Origin  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Silicification  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Palaeontological Significance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
Kromberg Formation - K1c1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Buck Reef Chert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Kromberg Formation - K3c  
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
Barite Valley Syncline 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Msauli Chert  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
 
Central Study Area, Fig Tree–Onverwacht Contact 
 
 
 
26 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
REFERENCES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
_______________oOo_______________ 
 
 
Published by the Economic Geology Research Institute 
School of Geosciences 
University of the Witwatersrand 
1 Jan Smuts Avenue 
Johannesburg 
South Africa 
http://www.wits.ac.za/geosciences/egri.htm
 
ISBN 0-9584855-4-2 
 
 

--- Page 4 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Chert is a minor, but important component of early Archaean greenstone belts of the Kaapvaal 
Craton in southern Africa and the Pilbara Craton in Western Australia. Chert, in the c. 3550 to 3220 
Ma old Swaziland Supergroup of the Barberton greenstone belt (BGB) in South Africa, forms 
thinly bedded, stratiform horizons and consists of microcrystalline quartz with minor amounts of 
phyllosilicates, carbonate and oxide minerals, and carbonaceous matter (Lowe, 1999a; Walsh and 
Lowe, 1999). A distinct variety of black, commonly carbonaceous, chert forms cross-cutting veins 
that are present in particular stratigraphic units, and mostly beneath stratiform chert horizons. 
     Chert horizons have yielded important information on: (1) the (tectono-) stratigraphy of the 
BGB, because they represent good marker horizons (Viljoen and Viljoen, 1969a; Williams and 
Furnell, 1979; De Wit, 1982; Lowe and Byerly, 1999) and may contain volcanic or detrital zircons 
useful for dating purposes (Armstrong et al., 1990; Kröner et al., 1991; Byerly et al., 1996, 2002); 
(2) the environment and tectonic setting of the volcano-sedimentary sequence, with sedimentary 
structures providing indicators of palaeo-water depth (Lowe and Knauth, 1977; Lanier and Lowe, 
1982; Paris, 1990; Lowe, 1999a); and (3) the temperature and composition of the Archaean ocean, 
as deduced from evaporite pseudomorphs and  18O signals (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 1999; 
Knauth and Lowe, 1978, 2002). Most importantly perhaps, carbonaceous chert horizons in the BGB 
and greenstone belts of the Pilbara Craton contain the oldest morphological evidence for life on 
Earth in the form of microfossils (Awramik, 1983; Walsh, 1992; Westall et al., 2001; Schopf, 
2002), indicating that life evolved early in geological history. However, the oldest microfossil-like 
structures of putative biological origin from 3465 Ma cherts in greenstone belts of the Pilbara 
Craton have also been regarded as secondary artefacts (Brasier et al., 2002). This reinterpretation is 
partly based on the presence of the microfossil-like structures in black chert dykes, interpreted to 
represent high-temperature (>250°C) hydrothermal veins rather than primary sedimentary chert. In 
addition, micron-sized filaments that are similar to filamentous microfossils have been synthesized 
inorganically (Garcia-Ruiz et al., 2003), casting further doubt on the currently accepted evidence 
for life forms in ancient cherts. Similarly problematic are light carbon isotope signatures of ancient 
carbonaceous matter, which, although long been cited as evidence that life evolved probably as 
early as 4000 Ma ago (Schidlowski, 1988; Mojzsis et al., 1996), may not record a biological signal 
(Horita and Berndt, 1999; Van Zuilen et al., 2002). The same may be true for the light  13C values 
obtained from early Archaean black cherts from the BGB and the Pilbara Craton (e.g., Oehler et al., 
1972; Hayes et al., 1983; Walsh and Lowe, 1999; Ueno et al., 2004). Better constraints on the 
origin of the carbonaceous matter in Archaean cherts is thus fundamental for an understanding of 
the early biological record. This study presents a summary of detailed field observations on the 
occurrence of carbonaceous cherts and their relationships with the host rocks at several 
stratigraphic levels of the BGB. 
 
 GEOLOGICAL SETTING 
 
The BGB (Fig. 1) is one of the key areas for the study of mid-Archaean supracrustal sequences. 
The belt consists of a NE–SW striking, tightly folded succession of supracrustal rocks, termed the 
Swaziland Supergroup, and is surrounded by granitoid domes. The volcano-sedimentary sequence 
is subdivided into three stratigraphic units, the Onverwacht, Fig Tree and Moodies Groups. The 
Onverwacht Group formed between c. 3550 and 3300 Ma and consists of submarine ultramafic-
mafic volcanic rocks and minor felsic volcanic and sedimentary rocks. South of the Inyoka Fault, 
the Onverwacht Group has been subdivided into six formations (Fig. 2), the Sandspruit, Theespruit, 
Komati, Hooggenoeg, Kromberg and Mendon (previously Swartkoppie) Formations (Viljoen and 

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
Viljoen, 1969b; Lowe and Byerly, 1999). The Theespruit Formation is separated from the Komati 
Formation by the Komati Fault, whereas the overlying formations of the Onverwacht Group are, 
apart from local complexities, in stratigraphic continuity. Metamorphic grade is mainly greenschist 
facies, but locally reaches amphibolite facies close to intrusive plutons, in particular in the 
Sandspruit and Theespruit Formations. Onverwacht Group rocks north of the Inyoka Fault have 
been grouped together as the Weltevreden Formation (Lowe and Byerly, 1999). Differences in the 
stratigraphy, ages and depositional environments of rocks north and south of the Inyoka Fault 
suggests that the fault zone represents a tectono-stratigraphic boundary. 
 
 
Figure 1.   Geological map of the western part of the Barberton greenstone belt 
 (modified from Kamo and Davis, 1994; Lowe and Byerly, 1999). 
 
The Fig Tree Group, c. 3260-3226 Ma in age (Kröner et al., 1991; Byerly et al., 1996), comprises 
different facies associations in the northern and southern portions of the belt. The northern facies 
consists mainly of relatively deep-water turbiditic greywacke and shale with felsic volcaniclastic 
rocks at the top (Condie et al., 1970; Eriksson, 1980; Lowe and Byerly, 1999; Kohler and 
 
2

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
Anhaeusser, 2002). The southern facies is compositionally more variable and formed in a 
predominantly shallow-water setting. It includes a lower unit of shale, greywacke and jaspilitic 
banded iron formation, a middle unit of sandstone, shale and conglomerate with local detrital barite 
beds, and an upper unit of felsic volcaniclastic rocks (Heinrichs, 1980; Lowe and Nocita, 1999; 
Hofmann, 2005a). Two distinct sedimentary horizons (S2, S3) with spherules, interpreted to 
represent quenched liquid silicate droplets of meteorite impact origin (Lowe et al., 2003), occur at 
the base of both the northern and southern Fig Tree facies and in the middle part of the southern 
facies. 
     The Moodies Group was deposited at c. 3226 Ma ago (Kamo and Davis, 1994) and consists of 
shallow-marine to fluvial sandstone and conglomerate with minor shale and banded iron formation. 
The succession comprises relatively quartz-rich, predominantly arenaceous rocks in contrast to the 
more quartz-poor Fig Tree sandstones. The Moodies Group is c. 3 km thick and has been 
subdivided by Anhaeusser (1976) into three formations, each of which is a fining-upward sequence, 
ranging from conglomerates or pebbly sandstones at the base, to a thick sandstone unit, to capping 
siltstones and shales. 
     The BGB was intruded by a variety of granitoids during several magmatic episodes. The 
granitoids, with an age range from c. 3500 to 3200 Ma (Kamo and Davis, 1994), belong to the 
tonalite, trondhjemite, granodiorite (TTG) suite and have a prominent gneissic fabric, whereas the 
younger, c. 3100 Ma granitoids, are potassium-rich and form prominent sheets of granodiorite and 
monzogranite. Pre-Onverwacht Group tonalitic to granitic gneisses (Ancient Gneiss Complex) 
occur southeast of the greenstone belt in Swaziland and have been dated at c. 3644 Ma (Compston 
and Kröner, 1988). 
 
 CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT -  
TERMINOLOGY AND REVIEW 
 
Field Distribution 
 
Based on the spatial relationship with the country rock, two distinct chert units can be 
distinguished: (1) stratiform horizons; and (2) veins that cut across stratification, the latter termed 
chert dykes. Stratiform chert horizons are typically 1-20 m thick, except for the Buck Reef Chert 
(Fig. 2), which reaches a thicknesses of a few hundred metres (Viljoen and Viljoen, 1969b; Lowe 
and Byerly, 1999). With the exception of the Sandspruit and Komati Formations and to a lesser 
extent the Theespruit Formation, stratiform cherts are common throughout the Onverwacht Group 
and the lower part of the Fig Tree Group, but are rare to absent in the upper Fig Tree and Moodies 
Groups. Chert horizons frequently overlie ultramafic, mafic, and dacitic volcanic rocks that are 
intensely silicified in the uppermost few tens of metres (De Wit et al., 1982; Paris et al., 1985; 
Lowe and Byerly, 1986; Duchac and Hanor, 1987; Hanor and Duchac, 1990; Hofmann, 2005b). 
     Chert dykes are 0.1 to 3 m wide, up to a few hundred metres in length, and cross-cut the country 
rock mostly perpendicular to stratification. They are volumetrically much less important than 
stratiform chert horizons. Chert dykes are restricted to the Onverwacht Group and occur most 
commonly beneath stratiform chert horizons. Anastomosing chert veins that are oriented 
subparallel to stratification are commonly associated with the dykes. Chert dykes in the Barberton 
belt have never been the subject of a detailed study, and much of the present work is aimed at 
understanding the origin of these features. 
 
3

--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Stratigraphic logs of the Barberton greenstone belt from the western and eastern limbs of 
the Onverwacht Anticline (modified from Lowe and Byerly, 1999).  
 
 
 
4

--- Page 8 ---
 
 
Composition 
 
The petrography of stratiform chert horizons of the BGB has recently been summarized by Lowe 
(1999a). The cherts consist of microcrystalline quartz with minor, but varying amounts of 
phyllosilicates (sericite, chlorite), carbonates (calcite, dolomite, siderite), iron oxides, and 
carbonaceous matter. SiO2 contents mostly exceed 90 wt. %. The cherts range in colour from green 
to grey to black; green colours are attributed to finely dispersed chlorite and Cr-rich sericitic mica 
(herein regarded as fuchsite), whereas dark grey to black coloration is attributed to the presence of 
carbonaceous matter. Red jaspilitic cherts also occur, but they are mainly associated with 
ferruginous shales of the Fig Tree Group. 
     Of particular importance for the purpose of this study are black cherts rich in carbonaceous 
matter. The carbonaceous matter occurs in four main petrographic varieties including fine 
laminations, irregularly-shaped simple grains, lobate clumps or composite grains, and wisps that are 
interpreted to represent compacted carbonaceous grains (Walsh and Lowe, 1999). Carbonaceous 
cherts include thinly bedded heterolithic rocks (black and white banded cherts), and laminated and 
massive black chert varieties. Black and white banded cherts are made up of layers of carbonaceous 
chert and white-weathering translucent chert. 
 
Origin 
 
Stratiform chert horizons consist of a variety of silicified sediments (Lowe and Knauth, 1977; 
Lanier and Lowe, 1982; Heinrichs, 1984; Paris, 1990; Lowe, 1999a; Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 
1999). Four main groups have been identified by Lowe (1999a): (1) volcaniclastic and pyroclastic 
deposits; (2) terrigenous sediments; (3) biogenic sediments; and (4) orthochemical deposits. The 
first group includes silicified beds of komatiitic ash and accretionary lapilli that commonly overlie 
komatiitic volcanic sequences and are typically represented by light-green to greenish-grey cherts. 
Silicified dacitic volcaniclastic sediments occur at the top of the Hooggenoeg Formation and at the 
base of the Fig Tree Group, whereas basaltic, sediment-derived cherts are less common or less easy 
to distinguish. The latter chert types contain admixed carbonaceous matter and are typically well 
laminated cherts of various shades of grey. Silicified terrigenous sediments include black cherts 
derived from sandstone and siltstone in the lower Fig Tree Group and possibly from carbonaceous 
shales in the Onverwacht Group. Massive to laminated black cherts and black and white banded 
cherts have been regarded as silicified biogenic sediments by Lowe (1999a). They are common 
throughout the Onverwacht Group with banded cherts being particularly well developed in the 
Buck Reef Chert. Silicified orthochemical deposits include rare silicified evaporites, possibly 
primary sea-floor silica deposits in the form of translucent cherts, and banded iron formation and 
associated ferruginous rocks. Silicified volcanic rocks are also common, especially in alteration 
zones beneath chert horizons (Duchac and Hanor, 1987; Hofmann, 2005b), and are a distinct group 
altogether. 
 
Silicification 
 
According to Lowe (1999a), silicification of many sedimentary chert horizons (shallow-water 
deposits in particular) took place very early in the depositional history. This is indicated, for 
example, by the preservation of a high primary porosity (now infilled by chert) in coarse-grained 
clastic and tuffaceous deposits, the absence of compaction features, and the presence of chert clasts 
in intraformational breccias and conglomerates. Controversy surrounds the cause of silicification. 
Some authors associate silicification with convective circulation of hydrothermal fluids, resulting in 
subsurface metasomatism and/or deposition of silicious exhalites around hydrothermal vents (De 
Wit et al., 1982; Paris et al., 1985; Duchac and Hanor, 1987). Lowe (1999a), on the other hand, 
suggested that much of the silicification took place during interaction between sea water and 
sediments close to the sediment-water interface, as indicated, for example, by evidence for very 
 
5

--- Page 9 ---
 
 
early silicification over wide areas and the absence of more typical exhalative deposits, such as 
sinter or massive sulphide deposits. Hofmann (2005b) presented evidence for silicification of sea 
floor sediments and underlying volcanic rocks by low-temperature hydrothermal activity as a result 
of high regional heat flow. 
 
Palaeontological Significance 
 
A variety of spherical, rod-shaped and filamentous microscopic features that consist of 
carbonaceous matter have been recorded from Onverwacht and Fig Tree Group cherts and 
interpreted as microfossils in numerous early studies (references in Schopf and Walter, 1983). A re-
evaluation of the purported microfossils by Schopf and Walter (1983) led to the conclusion that 
only a few features could be regarded as being of possible biogenic origin, whereas others were 
regarded as nonfossils, including pseudofossils, artifacts of sample preparation, and modern 
contaminants. More recent reports of filamentous microfossils and traces of bacterial activity in 
carbonaceous cherts include studies by Walsh and Lowe (1985), Walsh (1992), Westall et al. 
(2001), and Tice and Lowe (2004). These studies focused on carbonaceous cherts of the uppermost 
Hooggenoeg and Kromberg Formations. 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT 
 
Stratiform chert horizons and chert dykes have been investigated at several stratigraphic levels in 
many different parts of the greenstone belt, from the Hooggenoeg Formation to the Fig Tree Group 
(Figs. 1, 2). Cherts at the top of the Onverwacht Group and those associated with the Fig Tree 
Group have been investigated mainly in the central part of the greenstone belt (Fig. 3), herein 
referred to as the central study area.  
     Carbonaceous cherts are generally dark grey to black, and fresh rock splinters are opaque. On 
the other hand, black cherts are not necessarily carbonaceous, especially black cherts that, when 
fresh, are translucent to some degree. Translucent cherts commonly show botryoidal features. In the 
following account the term carbonaceous will be used for cherts where carbonaceous matter has 
been identified in thin section. Terms like opaque and translucent will be used for black cherts that 
were only studied in the field. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation 
 
The Hooggenoeg Formation (Fig. 2) overlies the Middle Marker chert, dated at 3472±5 Ma 
(Armstrong et al., 1990), and consists of massive and pillow basalt, spinifex-textured komatiitic 
basalt, thin silicified sedimentary horizons, and, at the top of the sequence, intrusive dacitic 
volcanic rocks and an epiclastic sedimentary unit. The dacitic rocks have been dated at c. 3445 Ma 
(Armstrong et al., 1990). Lowe and Byerly (1999) subdivided the succession into several 
stratigraphic units (H2-H5), each of which is represented by a volcanic interval (H2v-H5v) that is 
capped by a 1-15 m thick chert horizon (H2c-H5c). The Middle Marker is regarded as H1 and the 
dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks are denoted as H6. Each chert horizon is underlain by a 
metasomatic alteration zone that is characterized by silicification, the presence of Cr-bearing 
sericite, stratiform chert, quartz and carbonate veins, and, locally, chert dykes. 
 
 
6

--- Page 10 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Geological map of an area in the central part of the Barberton greenstone belt, termed 
the central study area (see Fig. 1 for location). Note the tectonic duplication of the Mendon 
Formation and overlying Fig Tree Group. Sedimentary rocks below, and volcanic rocks above, the 
thrust fault are altered to black chert. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation - H3c 
 
Description: A 10-15 m thick and laterally continuous chert horizon (H3c of Lowe and Byerly, 
1999) occurs in the middle part of the Hooggenoeg Formation (Fig. 2). In the study area (Fig. 1, 
locality 1), the chert is underlain by pillow basalt, which is silicified in the uppermost 30 m. 
Silicification increases towards the basalt-chert contact. Anastomosing veins of carbonaceous chert, 
up to 8 cm wide and oriented subparallel to the stratification, occur in the uppermost 2.5 m of the 
basalt sequence and increase in frequency upsection (Fig. 4a). Some veins grade laterally from 
massive carbonaceous chert into botryoidal black and white chert with internal quartz 
mineralization. 
     The contact between basalt and bedded chert is sharp and planar. The chert horizon commences 
with a laminated carbonaceous chert that locally contains a bed of fine basalt pebble conglomerate. 
A thin basalt flow also occurs near the base, but is sheared out locally. Black chert is overlain by 
stratified, but otherwise massive, greenish-grey chert, followed by unstratified greenish-grey chert 
that contains cm-scale translucent chert veinlets. Apart from crude layering, no sedimentary 
structures are present. Massive chert is succeeded by stratified greenish-grey chert, followed by 
interbedded greenish-grey and black carbonaceous chert. Soft-sediment deformation features are 
common in the latter unit, as indicated by common load structures of grey chert into black chert and 
sediment convolution (Fig. 5a). A second carbonaceous chert variety forms massive, mostly 
bedding-parallel veins, up to 15 cm wide, in the uppermost two chert units (Fig. 4a). The veins 
cross-cut, and contain fragments of, the host rock (Fig. 5b). The chert horizon is overlain by poorly 
exposed, massive, but not silicified mafic volcanic rocks. 
 
 
7

--- Page 11 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Simplified measured sections of (a) chert horizon H3c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, (b) 
chert horizon H5c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, and (c) a section exposed beneath chert horizon 
K1c1 of the Kromberg Formation. 
 
Both bedded and cross-cutting black cherts contain carbonaceous matter, mostly in the form of 
equant to elongate, but also disrupted, irregular grains that range from silt size up to 1 mm in 
diameter and are typically 200µm across. Grains in the lowermost bedded chert, and in veins 
cutting basalt, are loosly packed (Fig. 6a), whereas grains in sedimentary and vein chert near the 
top have been somewhat flattened as a result of compaction (Fig. 6b). Cross-cutting cherts contain 
sand-sized grains that are replaced by chert or phyllosilicates, some of which are enveloped by 
carbonaceous matter. Idiomorphic sulphide grains, 50-200µm in diameter, are common and are, in 
places, associated with cross-cutting chert veinlets. 
 
8

--- Page 12 ---
 
 
Interpretation:  Chert horizon H3c consists of mainly two varieties of silicified sediments. 
Greenish-grey chert represents subaquatically deposited and reworked, silicified tuff beds of 
komatiitic basalt composition (Hofmann, unpubl. data). Laminated black chert probably represents 
background suspension sediments that were laid down during intervals of volcanic quiescence. 
Detailed sections of H3c were reported by Lowe (1999a), who regarded the rocks as having formed 
in a shallow subtidal setting. In contrast, veins of massive black chert are not directly part of the 
sedimentary sequence. The veins can neither be regarded as simple fissures that were filled by 
carbonaceous sedimentary material, nor as feeder channels for the sedimentary black cherts, as 
indicated by their stratiform geometry as well as cross-cutting relationships with banded cherts. 
Many veins contain angular host rock fragments and show hydraulic fracture patterns (cf. Laznicka, 
1988; Jebrak, 1997), suggesting that they were initiated by the forceful intrusion of overpressured 
fluids. The presence of botryoidal chert and megaquartz in veins along the basalt-chert contact is 
consistent with a hydrothermal origin of the fluids. On the other hand, all chert types are 
petrographically very similar, because they contain sand-sized carbonaceous grains of apparent 
detrital origin. Because carbonaceous chert with plastic deformation features occurs in the 
sequence, some vein chert (especially that near the top of the sequence) may have been derived 
from sedimentary chert by dewatering and squeezing out of gelatinous silica during compaction. 
That the chert became lithified relatively late is attested by some compaction of the carbonaceous 
matter. A small-scale hydrothermal system that was initially open to the sediment-water interface, 
but became closed during progressive sedimentation and silicification, resulting in the buildup of 
fluid overpressure and hydraulic fracturing, may have resulted in the formation of similar features, 
like the veins that occur at the base of the section. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. (a) Load and flame structures at the base of a grey chert bed overlying black chert. 
Bedding in black chert is strongly convoluted. (b) Stratiform black chert vein transecting stratified 
grey chert. Note the fracturing of host rock by chert veins. 
 
 
9

--- Page 13 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Photomicrographs of carbonaceous sedimentary cherts and chert dykes; plane polarized 
light, scale bars are 500 µm long. (a) Carbonaceous grains in chert dyke below chert horizon H3c. 
Note idiomorphic sulphide grain (top centre). (b) Flattened carbonaceous grains near the top of 
H3c. (a) Loosly packed disrupted fragments of carbonaceous chert in a chert dyke below H5c. (d) 
Single and composite carbonaceous grains in sedimentary chert K1c1. Note botryoidal cements 
that enclose carbonaceous material (arrows). (e) Ellipsoidal carbonaceous grains filling a chert 
dyke below the Buck Reef Chert. (f) Silicified siltstone containing disseminated carbonaceous 
grains. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation - H5c 
 
Description: A few hundred metres thick sequence of pillow basalt and minor massive basalt forms 
the uppermost part of the Hooggenoeg Formation on the east limb of the Onverwacht Anticline 
(Fig. 2). The basalt sequence is capped by a thin chert horizon (H5c of Lowe and Byerly, 1999) that 
 
10

--- Page 14 ---
 
 
has been studied at one locality (Fig. 1, locality 2). Starting from c. 50 m below the chert bed, 
pillow basalt becomes silicified upsection and is transected by a network of massive carbonaceous 
chert veins in the uppermost 5 m (Fig. 4b). The veins have a random orientation and become more 
common and wider (5-25 cm) upsection, resulting in an equal chert- to host-rock ratio near the top 
(Fig. 7a). The dykes surround, rather than contain, angular basalt fragments, and some dykes 
consist of several generations of dyke material. Rare irregular contacts between chert and host rock 
indicate minor host-rock replacement (Fig. 7b). 
     Chert-veined basalt is capped by a c. 1 m-thick horizon of massive to thinly laminated black 
carbonaceous chert. Black chert is overlain by laminated grey chert, which contains some normally 
graded laminae with accretionary lapilli. Where the basalt-chert contact is exposed, chert sharply 
overlies silicified basalt that contains abundant translucent chert veins and patches; black chert 
forms stratiform veins 10 cm below the contact. Rare bedding-parallel veins of botryoidal black and 
white chert are present in the chert horizon, indicating that it too was affected by chert veining. The 
chert horizon is overlain along a sharp and planar contact by a dacite cobble conglomerate that 
forms the base of a c. 170 m-thick, upward-fining sedimentary sequence (Viljoen and Viljoen, 
1969a). Cross-cutting veins of botryoidal chert are rare. 
     Sedimentary black chert consists predominantly of equant, sand-sized, carbonaceous grains. 
Chert dykes consist of different domains. One domain consists of tightly packed, equant, sand-
sized, carbonaceous grains similar to the sedimentary chert. Later, cross-cutting material consists of 
loosly packed, irregular fragments of the latter (Fig. 6c). 
 
 
 
Figure 7. (a) Network of black chert veins cross-cutting silicified basalt 2-3 m below the basalt-
chert contact. (b) Irregular, finger-like protrusions of black chert replacing silicified basalt. 
 
Interpretation: Chert horizon H5c is compositionally similar to H3c. Greenish-grey chert represents 
silicified basaltic to komatiitic tuff beds, as indicated by the presence of accretionary lapilli and 
trace element contents (Hofmann, unpubl. data), whereas laminated black chert represents 
background suspension sediments that include possible biogenic material. Filamentous microfossils 
have been reported from this horizon to the north of the study locality (Walsh and Lowe, 1985; 
Walsh, 1992). The planar contact between chert and conglomerate indicates lithification of the 
chert bed prior to deposition of the conglomerate. This relationship is also indicated by the presence 
of rare black and grey chert clasts in the conglomerate, suggesting local erosion of the chert bed. 
     Black chert veins transecting basalt beneath the chert horizon are interpreted to be of 
hydrothermal origin. This is indicated by the geometry of the fracture pattern and wall rock 
replacement. On the other hand, the compositions of both chert varieties are similar. Both contain 
carbonaceous grains, suggesting a genetic link between dykes and sedimentary horizons. However, 
chert dykes also exhibit a high proportion of internal cross-cutting veins that contain fragments of 
carbonaceous chert, thus reflecting a multistage development. 
 
11

--- Page 15 ---
 
 
     Diffuse upflow of hydrothermal fluids is envisaged during deposition of the sedimentary chert 
precursor. This system became closed during progressive sedimentation and hydrothermal sediment 
silicification. The sedimentary chert horizon acted as a poorly permeable barrier for ascending 
fluids, resulting in fluid overpressure and hydraulic fracturing of the basalt. The fractures were 
filled with detrital material from the overlying sediments for some time before the hydraulic system 
was sealed again and the next cycle of pressure buildup and fracturing took place. Rare botryoidal 
chert veins cutting overlying conglomerate suggest that the hydrothermal system was active well 
after deposition and lithification of the conglomerate unit. Alternatively, these chert veins are part 
of a much later hydrothermal event. 
 
Kromberg Formation - K1c1 
 
Description: A banded chert horizon near the base of the Kromberg Formation (Fig. 2), termed 
K1c1 and correlated with the Buck Reef Chert by Lowe and Byerly (1999), crops out along the 
Komati River (Fig. 1, locality 3). The exposed section starts with a fuchsite-chert-carbonate 
alteration zone that is overlain by carbonated, stratified lapillistone. Stratiform botryoidal and 
massive black chert veins less than 5 cm thick are common in both units. In the upper part of the 
section, stratiform black chert veins become more numerous, resulting in massive black chert that 
contains matrix-supported lapillistone fragments near the top (Fig. 4c). Lapillistone becomes 
progressively more silicified upsection. This is followed by a several metres thick chert horizon 
(K1c1) that consists of black and white banded chert. 
     Both vein and sedimentary black cherts contain carbonaceous material in the form of sand-sized 
grains. Botryoidal chert cement is common and is frequently interlayered with, or encloses, 
carbonaceous material of a different generation (Fig. 6d). 
Interpretation: Chert vein geometry at the top of the volcaniclastic sequence suggests a 
hydrothermal origin of the veins. The increase in veining upsection suggests some ponding of 
hydrothermal fluids below chert at times. Lapillistone becomes more silicified towards the top, 
suggesting that silicification and chert veining were contemporaneous. The same hydrothermal 
processes as discussed for H5 are envisaged to explain the field relationships. 
 
Buck Reef Chert (BRC) 
 
Description: In the study area on the west limb of the Onverwacht Anticline (Fig. 1, locality 4), the 
BRC has been subdivided into three facies (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 1999; Lowe and Byerly, 
2003; Tice and Lowe, 2004): (1) a basal evaporitic facies, containing volcaniclastic sedimentary 
rocks, chert and silicified evaporites; (2) a middle platform facies of black and white banded chert; 
and (3) an upper basin facies of banded ferruginous chert (Fig. 8). A variety of fossil-like 
microstructures have been reported from the BRC (Walsh, 1992). 
     The BRC overlies a dacitic igneous body, up to 2 km thick, termed member H6 of the 
Hooggenoeg Formation and interpreted as a large intrusive to extrusive lava dome and associated 
volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks (Lowe and Byerly, 1999; Lowe et al., 1999). The contact between 
H6 and the BRC is gradational. Massive, silicified dacite grades into conglomerate, pebbly 
sandstone, and massive to planar bedded, coarse-grained sandstone. The clasts consist entirely of 
dacitic volcanic rock, except for rare chert clasts. The sedimentary rocks are strongly silicified and 
detrital grains are variably replaced by chert. Parallel- and ripple-laminated chert is interbedded 
with, and overlies, silicified sandstone. The chert consists of interbedded translucent chert and 
black carbonaceous chert, and is frequently transected by elongate crystal pseudomorphs. Lowe and 
Fisher Worrell (1999) provided a detailed description of the facies preserved along the H6-BRC 
contact, which were interpreted to have formed in a coastal braid plain-sandflat setting. Replaced 
crystals were interpreted to represent pseudomorphs after nahcolite. 
 
 
12

--- Page 16 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Simplified section of the Buck Reef Chert. 
 
The silicified sandstone facies is overlain along a sharp contact by cherts that mostly lack sandstone 
interbeds. In the lowermost unit occur ≤ 0.5 m thick layers of silicified evaporites that are overlain 
by chert-clast breccias, with fragments of banded and evaporitic chert in a botryoidal chert and 
quartz matrix. The centres of some botryoidal chert and quartz fillings contain massive 
carbonaceous chert. Lowe and Fisher Worrell (1999) interpreted the chert breccias as evaporite 
dissolution cavities that were filled by botryoidal chert under mostly phreatic zone conditions. 
Carbonaceous chert in cavities was regarded as an injection of carbonaceous ooze, arresting 
complete precipitative filling. The evaporitic and botryoidal cherts are locally overlain by thin units 
of chert-clast conglomerate, black carbonaceous chert and green chert (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 
 
13

--- Page 17 ---
 
 
1999), and are succeeded by banded cherts of the shallow to deeper water platform and basin facies 
(Tice and Lowe, 2004). 
     Thin, randomly oriented veins of translucent chert (0.5 to 1 cm, but rarely up to 5 cm wide), are 
common in the uppermost few hundred metres of the dacitic unit. Farther upsection, stratiform 
chert veins, 1–30 cm wide, are very common in the conglomerate and sandstone facies at the H6–
BRC contact. The veins consist of massive carbonaceous as well as botryoidal chert; some massive 
black chert veins grade laterally into botryoidal chert. The chert veins transect the host rock 
subparallel to bedding and partly brecciate it (Fig. 9a). Many horizons, up to 50 cm wide, are 
superficially similar to banded sedimentary chert, but, instead, consist of multiple stratiform veins, 
as indicated by the presence of angular fragments of chert and dacitic host rock (Fig. 9b). 
Furthermore, botryoidal chert veins, up to 50 cm wide, are present that are similar to the evaporite 
dissolution cavities at the base of the BRC. Most contacts between chert and host rock, including 
host-rock fragments, are sharp. In rare cases, however, does botryoidal chert replace the host rock. 
Furthermore, the matrix of some conglomerate beds is intruded and/or replaced by botryoidal chert. 
Chert veining is most intense immediately below the evaporitic and botryoidal chert unit. Rare 
chert veins also occur within this unit, whereas chert veins were not observed in the banded chert 
unit above, although identification is obscured because of the compositional similarity. 
     Several chert dykes that are oriented at a high angle to stratification (60-90°) transect the dacitic 
volcanic and sedimentary rocks of H6. The larger ones start at least 250 m below the BRC and 
appear to taper downward. They do not transect the silicified evaporite and associated breccia 
horizon at the base of the BRC. The dykes are ≤ 2 m in width. They show a crude internal layering 
parallel to the dyke walls (Fig. 9c), because they are made up of multiple generations of dyke fills 
as well as small cracks and veins, including botryoidal chert veins. Dykes, when fresh, consist of 
massive black chert; weathered surfaces reveal a fragmental, granular fabric caused by the presence 
of sand- to fine pebble-sized, angular clasts of white-weathering, probably host-rock material. 
Some "dykes in dykes" contain angular black chert fragments of the dyke host rock (Fig. 9c). 
Wherever cross-cutting relationships between stratiform chert veins and cross-cutting dykes can be 
observed, which is rarely the case, stratiform veins postdate dyking (Fig. 9d). 
     Carbonaceous matter in both banded cherts and chert dykes and veins consists of equant, sand-
sized carbonaceous grains that are moderately packed (Fig. 6e). Veins and dykes contain, in 
addition, sand-sized fragments of the host rock, including quartz, which are frequently completely 
replaced by chert. Botryoidal translucent cherts are devoid of carbonaceous matter, except for thin, 
carbonaceous chert laminae along vein margins. 
Interpretation: Of importance in the context of this study is the origin of black chert dykes and 
veins below, and at the base of, the BRC and any possible genetic link to the overlying, unusually 
thick sequence of banded cherts. The most plausible interpretation for the origin of stratiform chert 
veins is to regard them as fractures that were initiated by overpressured hydrothermal fluids and 
were filled by hydrothermal chert and sediment-derived material. Such an origin is indicated by the 
bedding-parallel orientation, brecciation of the host rock, the local filling of veins by botryoidal 
chert, and local host-rock replacement. Chert dykes are equally interpreted as hydrothermal features 
that recorded multiple injections of fluidized sedimentary material and hydrothermal fluids, partly 
brecciating the host rock and incorporating host-rock fragments into the dyke. Stratiform veins and 
cross-cutting chert dykes probably formed during a single event, although the veins formed slightly 
later. 
 
 
14

--- Page 18 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. (a) Silicified dacitic sandstone transected and brecciated by stratiform veins of black and 
botryoidal chert. (b) Banded chert consisting of multiple stratiform veins, as indicated by angular 
fragments of dacitic host rock (arrows). (c) Dyke consisting of (1) laminated black chert, (2) 
massive black chert with fragmental texture, and (3) weathered translucent chert with angular 
black chert fragments. Layering is parallel to dyke walls (not seen in photograph), which are 
perpendicular to stratification of the host rock. (d) Black chert dyke with fragments of massive 
dacitic host rock (1) cut by stratification-parallel black chert vein (2) showing lamination. 
 
Chert veins and dykes were not observed above the basal evaporitic facies of the BRC. This may 
indicate that hydrothermal activity was ongoing while this facies was being deposited and ceased 
before deposition of the overlying cherts, or that the evaporitic facies acted as a barrier for 
ascending and/or laterally migrating hydrothermal fluids. Cessation of hydrothermal activity can be 
attributed to reduced convection of seawater through the underlying rocks, when the basal chert 
beds prevented continuous recharge of the hydrothermal system. Banded cherts above the 
evaporitic facies show soft-sediment deformation (Tice and Lowe, 2004) and may have become 
lithified relatively late in the depositional history. They were thus unable to act as an impermeable 
barrier and did not respond to hydrothermal activity by brittle fracturing. The formation of chert-
clast breccias near the base of the BRC is best attributed to subsurface dissolution of evaporites by 
hydrothermal fluids rather than to evaporite dissolution in the phreatic zone (Lowe and Fisher 
Worrell, 1999). This interpretation is in line with the presence of botryoidal chert veins in the 
volcaniclastic facies that are similar to the "evaporite dissolution cavities", thus suggesting a 
relationship between evaporite dissolution and hydrothermal activity. 
 
 
 
 
 
15

--- Page 19 ---
 
 
 
Kromberg Formation - K3c 
 
Banded sedimentary cherts (K3c of Lowe and Byerly, 1999) overlying silicified volcanic rocks at 
the top of the Kromberg Formation (Fig. 2) are exposed in several localities of the BGB. The cherts 
and associated rocks form a locally very well exposed, laterally traceable horizon that has been 
investigated in the central study area and on Josefsdal farm. 
 
Central study area 
 
Description: In the central study area (Fig. 3, locality 5), the section commences with silicified 
pillowed basalt that contains cm-wide black chert dykes at the top (Fig. 10). Basalt is overlain by 
black and white banded chert; black and botryoidal chert veins are common. The chert is succeeded 
by pillow basalt that is variably replaced by black, massive chert and minor green chert. Black chert 
occurs in diffuse patchy areas or in stratification-parallel horizons. Black chert veins parallel, 
perpendicular, and random to stratification are abundant. A few metres thick and locally sheared 
banded chert overlies basalt and is followed by a sheared fuchsite-chert-carbonate rock. 
     The same section c. 1.5 km to the east (Fig. 3, locality 6) has a similar stratigraphy (Fig. 10). It 
starts with a succession of silicified pillow and massive basalt. Stratification-parallel as well as 
irregular veins and patches of chert occur in the uppermost 5 m. Opaque black chert occupies the 
centre of patches and veins, whereas translucent black chert forms a c. 3 mm-wide zone along the 
typically cuspate contact (Fig. 11a). Basalt is succeeded by sedimentary rocks, including laminated 
black chert and a massive conglomerate that consists of silicified basalt pebbles in a matrix of 
translucent chert. Pebbles show marginal chert replacement, and some chert veining opened up the 
original clast-supported fabric. The conglomerate is overlain by a succession of banded, laminated 
and massive, grey and black cherts that include stratiform veins. Cross-cutting black chert veins 
transect this unit and the underlying conglomerate and partly brecciate it (Fig. 11b). Rock 
fragments show evidence of marginal replacement by chert and are frequently surrounded by 
translucent chert rims. The chert sequence is overlain by poorly exposed komatiitic basalt, a 
sheared unit of banded black chert, and a prominent horizon of fuchsitic chert with numerous 
irregular chert veins and patches. 
Interpretation: Banded chert horizons represent silicified sediments that were laid down in between 
submarine volcanic activity. Deposition took place in a low-energy, sub-wave base setting with 
episodic, high-energy current events that resulted in the deposition of conglomerate beds. Many 
black chert veins and dykes formed after lithification of the banded cherts, resulting in fracturing 
and brecciation. The veins are considered to be of hydrothermal origin, as indicated by the 
geometry of the fracture pattern and the replacement of both volcanic and sedimentary host rocks. 
Chert veining associated with brecciation of bedded cherts is a result of fracturing of the 
impermeable barrier horizon allowing ponded, overpressured fluids to pass through. 
 
 
16

--- Page 20 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Simplified stratigraphic sections of chert horizon K3c at the top of the Kromberg 
Formation in the central study area (localities 5 and 6, Fig. 3) and on Josefsdal farm (locality 7, 
Fig. 1). 
 
 
 
Figure 11. (a) Amoeboidal patches of black chert in massive silicified basalt. Note the rim of 
translucent chert along basalt contacts (arrow). (b) Basalt pebble conglomerate transected and 
brecciated by black chert dykes. Some breccia fragments show evidence of marginal replacement 
by black chert (arrow). 
 
17

--- Page 21 ---
 
 
 
Josefsdal farm 
 
Description: Silicified volcanic rocks and banded cherts of the uppermost Kromberg Formation 
also crop out on Josefsdal farm (Fig. 1, locality 7) c. 12 km east-southeast of the previous study 
area. The section (Fig. 10) starts with laminated greenish-grey and black chert; some laminae 
contain accretionary lapilli. Stratiform black chert veins, some of which cross-cut bedding, are 
common at the top of the unit. Banded chert is overlain by a massive, greenish-grey chert, which 
represents silicified komatiitic basalt (Hofmann, unpubl. data). Millimetre-wide, discontinuous 
veins of translucent chert give rise to a lenticular fabric (Fig. 12a). Irregular veins (Fig. 12b), dykes 
and patches of black chert are common in the uppermost few metres of the silicified basalt and 
increase in abundance upsection (Fig. 10). Near the top, veins can no longer be discerned, and 
carbonaceous chert surrounds basalt fragments (Fig. 12c). The irregular shape of some fragments is 
related to marginal replacement by black chert. Black chert reveals a fragmental texture when 
weathered. This texture is related to silt- to fine pebble-sized, angular to rounded, probably mostly 
wall rock fragments. 
     Chert-veined basalt is succeeded by parallel-laminated, carbonaceous grey chert. The contact is 
very sharp; the underlying chert does not cut through it, except for a later generation of translucent 
chert veins. A bed of massive basalt pebble conglomerate occurs near the base of the sedimentary 
sequence (Fig. 10) and is infiltrated by botryoidal chert; chert clasts are absent. A second bed of 
massive conglomerate (Fig. 10) comprises clast-supported, very well-rounded pebbles and cobbles 
of grey chert. The sedimentary sequence is transected by a network of mostly bedding-parallel 
veins of black chert (Fig. 12d). Veins below the conglomerate frequently contain clasts derived 
from this bed. 
     Patches of grey chert and basalt-clast breccia occur in the uppermost part of the basalt sequence 
(Fig. 12a). A similar breccia exists as a dyke filling in the overlying sedimentary sequence. The 
breccia consists of angular chert clasts and rounded chert fragments, the latter derived from chert- 
pebble conglomerate. 
     In thin section, banded chert consists of a silicified clay-/siltstone with detrital quartz and 
disseminated, somewhat compacted, very fine sand-sized carbonaceous grains (Fig. 6f). Vein chert 
in basalt consists predominantly of tightly packed, fine sand-sized carbonaceous grains. 
 
 
18

--- Page 22 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 12. (a) Silicified basalt with translucent chert veins (arrows). Breccia of silicified basalt 
and chert fragments (left centre) probably represents a fissure filling. (b) Thin black chert veins 
transecting silicified basalt. (c) Black chert-veined and brecciated silicified basalt. Note local 
replacement of basalt by black chert (arrow). (d) Grey banded chert brecciated by thin black chert 
veins. Some chert veins contain rounded clasts derived from an overlying chert conglomerate bed. 
 
Interpretation: Stratiform chert veins at the chert-basalt contact suggest minor fluid flow along this 
contact after deposition of the lava flow. Hydrothermal activity was, however, much more 
pronounced along the contact with the overlying banded chert and resulted in much of the basalt 
being fractured and replaced. 
     The association of chert-pebble conglomerate and veins filled with rounded chert clasts has been 
described by Paris et al. (1985) and Stanistreet and Hughes (1984), who regarded such rocks as 
pseudoconglomerates that formed as discordant subsurface breccia bodies during exhalative 
processes. This and similar conglomerate bodies are more likely of sedimentary origin, because 
they form continuous beds and sometimes show grading. Rounding of the clasts took place in a 
"normal" sedimentary environment and not as a result of mechanical wear during hydrothermal 
transport. The presence of rounded chert fragments in discordant veins has been explained by Lowe 
(1999a) as a result of early brecciation of the cherty sediment and filling of the fractures by debris 
from overlying, still unlithified conglomerate beds. Lowe (1999a) noted that the absence of 
fragments of underlying rock in the breccias and of breccias intrusive into overlying units indicate 
that they were not formed by upward fluid flow. Brecciation has been attributed to exposure and 
desiccation or hydrofracturing during sediment dewatering, either as a result of compaction or 
boiling of interstitial waters during the deposition of overlying lavas (Lowe, 1999a). It is more 
likely that brecciation is a result of syndepositional hydrothermal activity that resulted in the 
formation of fractures that were then infilled by partly unconsolidated sediments. Fissures that are 
filled with brecciated host-rock material must have formed some time after deposition and 
 
19

--- Page 23 ---
 
 
lithification of the banded cherts, because they lack carbonaceous chert fillings, and probably 
represent hydrothermal breccia dykes. Similar breccia dykes have locally been observed at the 
Onverwacht-Fig Tree contact, where they contain fragments derived from stratigraphically 
underlying units (Hofmann, unpubl. data). 
 
Barite Valley Syncline (BVS) 
 
Description: Sedimentary horizons, stratiform veins and cross-cutting dykes of carbonaceous cherts 
are common in the southern part of the BVS (Fig. 1, locality 8), where the contact between the 
Onverwacht and Fig Tree Group is well exposed (Fig. 13). The stratigraphy and sedimentology of 
Fig Tree strata in the BVS have been described by Heinrichs and Reimer (1977) and Lowe and 
Nocita (1999). As pointed out by Lowe and Byerly (2003), the BVS is not a true syncline, as the 
two limbs are separated by faulting and show a different stratigraphy. The strata of the two limbs 
are dipping steeply to the east-southeast (Fig. 13). Open to tight folding is common in the central 
part of the structure, and fold axes have a shallow to moderate plunge to the north-northeast. 
 
 
 
Figure 13. Geological map of the southern part of the Barite Valley Syncline and stratigraphic 
section of the western limb (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977; Lowe and Byerly, 2003; own mapping). A 
and B are localities discussed in the text. 
 
     On the west limb, the lowermost stratigraphic unit consists of intensely altered ultramafics, now 
represented by a fuchsite-chert-carbonate rock (Fig. 13). A sequence of banded black, grey and 
white chert overlies the volcanic rocks. When weathered, this unit has the appearance of silicified 
shale and siltstone. White-weathering translucent chert bands mostly represent stratiform veins. 
Numerous chert dykes cut through the sedimentary and underlying volcanic rock units. Banded 
chert is overlain, possibly along an erosional unconformity (Lowe and Byerly, 2003), by a 
lithologically complex unit of massive greenish-grey chert with mm-wide translucent chert veins, 
fine chert-pebble conglomerate and grit containing meteorite impact spherules (Lowe et al., 2003), 
and bedded barite intercalated with silicified sandstones. Chert dykes do not penetrate this unit. 
This is overlain by interstratified silicified sandstone, fine chert-pebble conglomerate, barite, and 
jaspilite, followed by parallel-laminated tuffaceous sandstone, siltstone and shale. The relationships 
discussed below refer to the west limb of the BVS. 
 
20

--- Page 24 ---
 
 
     Chert dykes are up to 3 m wide, relatively tabular and extend for at least 250 m downsection. 
They dip steeply to the south-southwest and terminate along a greenish-grey chert horizon that is 
situated immediately below the impact spherule and barite beds. This chert horizon contains 
abundant diffuse patches of black translucent chert. 
     Metre-scale chert dykes are frequently composite dyke-in-dyke structures (Fig. 14a) and consist 
of discrete generations of dyke fillings, thus showing a crude layering subparallel to the dyke walls. 
They are filled with massive carbonaceous chert, botryoidal chert and a common carbonaceous 
chert variety that, when weathered, reveals a fragmental texture. This texture is related to the 
presence of mostly granule- to pebble-sized (but from silt to cobble-sized), angular- to well- 
rounded, silicified clasts that float in the chert matrix. The fragments are compositionally similar to 
the immediate dyke host rock. Some fragments show evidence of in situ brecciation by thin chert 
veining, as indicated by the preservation of a jigsaw fit (Fig. 14b). Black chert fragments also occur 
and they most likely represent fragments of an earlier chert dyke generation. Although most clasts 
are angular, some are subangular to well rounded, so that some dyke fills resemble matrix-
supported conglomerates. Mutual cross-cutting relationships between different generations of 
carbonaceous and botryoidal translucent cherts are common. Dyke walls are sometimes irregular, 
suggesting marginal chert replacement. Patches of translucent chert occur in some carbonaceous 
chert dykes in between the fragments, suggesting incomplete filling of dykes at times. 
     Bedding-parallel chert veins that locally branch off the dykes (Fig. 14c) are common in silicified 
sediments. These veins are up to 0.5 m wide and transect and brecciate the host rock subparallel to 
bedding. Stepping of chert dykes and veins both vertically and laterally is common (Fig. 15). At 
one locality a black chert dyke occurs that cuts through bedding at a low angle; black chert is finely 
laminated parallel to the dyke wall. 
     Several dykes, irrespective of the nature of the immediate wall rock, contain equant to tabular, 
angular to rounded pebbles of black, slightly translucent chert in a matrix of carbonaceous chert. 
One dyke that cuts across banded chert contains angular fragments of the host rock that are 
surrounded by a 5 mm-wide rim of botryoidal chert, resulting in a more rounded shape of the 
fragments (Fig. 14d). The same dyke, 1.5 m downsection, contains spherical pebbles of translucent 
chert that are rimmed by botryoidal chert, with the same shape and size as the chert-rimmed angular 
clasts (Fig. 14e). 
     At location A (Fig. 13), a swarm of densely spaced chert dykes transects the base of the 
sedimentary sequence, which contains abundant jaspilite beds in otherwise black and white banded 
chert in a zone ≥ 4 m thick. The dykes contain jaspilite fragments where they cut the jaspilite-
bearing horizon, but jaspilite fragments also occur stratigraphically below the horizon. 
Furthermore, jaspilitic cherts are cross-cut by small veins of black chert both parallel and 
perpendicular to bedding; the banded cherts are frequently replaced along the margin of these veins 
(Fig. 14f). Approximately 10 m below the impact spherule layer at locality B (Fig. 13) occur 
spherules in several black chert dykes in a bedding-parallel, poorly exposed zone with a minimum 
lateral extent of 10 m and a thickness of c. 3 m. The spherules either float in black chert or form 
rock fragments composed entirely of spherules. 
 
 
21

--- Page 25 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 14. (a) Chert dyke consisting of botryoidal chert at the margin and a later fill of 
carbonaceous chert in the centre. (b) Chert dyke containing fragments of silicified sedimentary host 
rock in a black chert matrix. Some fragments have been fractured by thin chert veins after being 
incorporated into the dyke (arrows). (c) Dyke of massive black chert that transects silicified 
sedimentary rocks and branches into a stratiform vein upsection. Stratigraphic way-up is to the top. 
Picture taken on east limb of the Barite Valley Syncline. (d) Angular fragments of silicified 
sedimentary rock that are rimmed by translucent, laminated and somewhat botryoidal chert, 
resulting in a more rounded shape of the fragments. (e) Angular to rounded pebbles of black 
translucent chert in a fragmental black chert matrix. Pebbles are rimmed by megaquartz. (f) 
Banded jaspilitic chert intruded and partly replaced (arrows) by black chert. 
 
 
22

--- Page 26 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 15. Field relationships between silicified sedimentary rocks (bedding is indicated) and 
intrusive veins and dykes of massive carbonaceous chert. Scale bars are 10 cm long. 
 
     Bedded carbonaceous cherts represent silicified siltstones and claystones that contain remnants 
of silt-sized quartz grains. Carbonaceous matter occurs in the form of slightly compacted, 
ellipsoidal grains in the very fine sand-size range. Chert dykes contain abundant silt to coarse sand-
sized, equant carbonaceous grains admixed with some angular, chert-replaced clasts, representing 
either detrital grains or wall-rock fragments. 
Interpretation: Chert dykes and veins are interpreted to have been initiated by hydrothermal 
processes, on the basis of similar arguments presented earlier, such as fracturing of the wall rocks, 
geometry of the chert-filled fractures, multiple dyke fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier 
generations of dyke fillings, marginal replacement of wall rock and wall-rock fragments, and the 
presence of botryoidal chert. Furthermore, the presence of vertical dykes that branch into bedding-
parallel veins, and the presence of dykes with a parallel laminar fabric that are at an angle to 
bedding indicate that the dyke system cannot be regarded as simple open fissures that were infilled 
with sedimentary material from above. 
     Rounding of wall-rock fragments is a common observation in the chert dykes. It has been shown 
that rounding can be a result of marginal replacement of angular fragments and that many chert 
pebbles represent completely replaced wall-rock fragments. Rounding of fragments in 
hydrothermal breccias is commonly observed and may be a result of mechanical abrasion during 
movement in the fluid, or, as it is the case here, be a result of corrosive wear, i.e., the marginal 
dissolution of fragments (Jebrak, 1997). It cannot always be ascertained if rock fragments in chert 
dykes were derived from the immediate wall rock, including an earlier chert generation of the dyke 
fillings, or from rocks stratigraphically above or below the position they occur. The presence of 
jaspilite fragments and impact spherules in dykes below beds that contain such material suggests 
some downward movement (see also Lowe and Byerly, 1986). In most cases, however, the 
fragments are derived from the immediate wall rocks and appear not to have travelled far up- or 
downsection. 
     Chert dykes do not penetrate a laterally persistent horizon of greenish-grey chert and extend into 
the overlying conglomerate and barite beds. This contact has been regarded as possibly 
unconformable, and it may thus be plausible that the termination of the chert dykes, if regarded to 
be of syndepositional origin, is a result of erosion down to that contact. However, a similar 
relationship exists on the east limb, where chert dykes stop along a chert horizon along which there 
is no evidence for an erosional contact. Furthermore, chert dykes are not terminated sharply, but 
rather lose their geometry to form diffuse patches of black chert in green chert. These relationships 
suggest that the chert dykes terminated at a stratigraphic level of early silicified sediments that were 
impermeable for the hydrothermal fluids. The chert dykes are not vertical, but dip steeply to the 
north-northeast, which is probably related to the north-northeast plunge of the fold structure, 
suggesting that they formed in a vertical orientation. 
     The field relationships in the BVS do not clearly permit identification of the exact timing of the 
hydrothermal activity. However, it has to be kept in mind that the sedimentary sequence above the 
chert dykes contains several beds of barite. The beds are interpreted to consist of detrital barite that 
 
23

--- Page 27 ---
 
 
was eroded from hydrothermal barite deposits elsewhere (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977). 
Hydrothermal barite is commonly associated with chert dykes in the Pilbara Craton (Nijman et al., 
1999), possibly suggesting a genetic link between chert dykes and reworked barite, i.e., 
syndepositional hydrothermal activity. 
 
Msauli Chert 
 
The Onverwacht-Fig Tree contact is locally occupied by a chert unit that consists of silicified beds 
of accretionary lapilli, termed the Msauli Chert. Two sections have been studied in detail, the type 
section in the Msauli gorge and a section situated in the central study area. 
     In the Msauli gorge (Fig. 1, locality 9), the section starts with a lenticular-banded, fuchsite-
chert-carbonate rock (Fig. 16a) that represents altered ultramafic rocks of the Mendon Formation. 
The volcanic rocks are sharply overlain by the Msauli Chert, which, in the lower part, consists of 
thinly interbedded green and black carbonaceous chert. This unit is overlain by accretionary lapilli-
bearing, normally graded and rarely cross-stratified beds intercalated with laminated green chert 
(Heinrichs, 1984; Lowe, 1999b). The Msauli Chert and underlying volcanic rocks are transected by 
massive carbonaceous and botryoidal translucent chert veins and dykes mostly parallel and 
perpendicular to bedding (Fig. 16a). In most cases, stratiform veins consist of botryoidal chert and 
formed later than the carbonaceous chert dykes. Some dykes are represented by a network of mm- 
to cm-scale veins that surround angular host-rock fragments, with large fragments being unrotated 
and almost in situ. Other dykes show an irregular lamination parallel to the dyke walls (Fig. 16b). 
They may contain elongate fragments of wall rock that are aligned parallel to the lamination. The 
Msauli Chert is overlain by c. 5 m of rather massive, but poorly exposed, carbonaceous chert, 
followed by variably silicified graphitic shale. No chert dykes were observed that cut the shale unit. 
Microfossil-like features showing apparent cell division have been reported from carbonaceous 
rocks of the Msauli Chert (Knoll and Barghoorn, 1977). 
     An additional outcrop of Msauli Chert has been investigated c. 5 km east of the previous section 
in the central study area (Fig. 3, locality 10). The stratigraphy of the Msauli Chert and associated 
rocks is very similar, although the whole unit is locally tectonically duplicated due to low-angle 
faulting (not shown on map). The exposed section starts with a schistose fuchsite-chert-carbonate 
rock containing abundant, mostly foliation-parallel veins of botryoidal chert (1-30 cm wide). 
Layers (5-30 cm thick) with undeformed spinifex textures indicate a komatiite parentage for the 
rocks. The altered ultramafics are overlain by c. 20 m of interbedded lapillistone and green chert 
(Msauli Chert). The Msauli Chert is transected and brecciated by carbonaceous and botryoidal chert 
veins that are mostly subparallel to bedding. Some chert veins are exactly parallel to bedding and 
are filled with chert that may show a parallel laminar fabric (Fig. 16c). The uppermost 1-2 m of the 
Msauli Chert is strongly brecciated by a network of bedding-parallel veins of botryoidal chert. The 
chert penetrates lapillistone along the margin and either displaces individual lapilli outwards or 
replaces the finer-grained matrix material so that originally densely packed lapilli become matrix-
supported in black chert (Fig. 16d). The Msauli Chert is overlain by c. 10 m of banded black and 
white chert. Some chert layers are well banded, whereas other layers are faintly laminated to 
massive and may represent stratiform veins. Bedding-parallel botryoidal chert veins are present. In 
addition, there are cross-cutting black chert dykes, although they are not as common and/or easy to 
detect as in the underlying Msauli Chert. A chert-pebble conglomerate is intercalated with massive 
black chert near the top of the section. This bed is invaded by translucent chert, which results in the 
clast-supported fabric being opened up. The conglomerate becomes sheared out laterally, although 
there is no clear shear fabric in either the conglomerate or the black chert. However, black chert 
contains silicified, poorly visible clasts that are probably derived from conglomerate, indicating that 
some of the material may have been replaced by chert. The chert unit is overlain by shales of the 
Fig Tree Group, although the contact is not exposed at this locality. 
 
 
24

--- Page 28 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 16. (a) Lenticular-banded, altered ultramafic rock transected by carbonaceous and 
botryoidal chert dykes and veins. (b) The Msauli Chert is cut by carbonaceous chert dykes (1) at an 
angle to bedding. Some dykes show a crude stratification parallel to the dyke walls (arrow). A later 
vein of black botryoidal chert (2) transects the rock subparallel to bedding. (c) Black chert vein 
intrusive into parallel-stratified Msauli Chert. The chert vein shows a fine lamination parallel to 
the vein walls (arrow). (d) Lapillistone transected by botryoidal chert veins. Note that chert 
infiltrates the lapillistone along the vein margin and displaces individual lapilli outwards (arrows). 
 
Interpretation: Both carbonaceous and botryoidal cherts are interpreted as hydrothermal fracture 
fillings that formed during the same hydrothermal event, although botryoidal chert frequently, but 
not always, formed later. The presence of wall-rock fragments aligned parallel to a commonly 
developed layering in the dykes indicate that the dykes and their stratification is a result of multiple 
chert injections. The fracture pattern and brecciation of the uppermost part of the Msauli Chert in 
the central study area suggests a hydraulic fracturing mechanism, with the hydrothermal fluids 
again concentrated below a lithological contact. Translucent chert invaded lapillistone and 
conglomerate beds and there is evidence that this invasion may have led locally to "delithification", 
as in the case of accretionary lapilli becoming entrained in the chert. The parallel laminar fabric of 
some bedding-parallel chert veins is probably a compaction or foliation feature, which could easily 
be confused with a sedimentary structure. There is evidence for shearing along massive black chert 
units, as indicated by deformation of one conglomerate horizon, suggesting that massive black chert 
horizons may host cryptic bedding-parallel shear zones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25

--- Page 29 ---
 
 
Central Study Area, Fig Tree-Onverwacht Contact 
 
Description: The contact between the Fig Tree Group and tectonically overlying Onverwacht 
Group  is represented by a shear zone (Granville Grove Fault of Lowe and Byerly, 1999), along 
which the sedimentary and volcanic rocks have been silicified to black chert. The uppermost 
exposed sedimentary rocks of the Fig Tree Group, which are characterized by a homogeneous 
sequence of parallel-laminated and rarely cross-bedded, fine-grained sandstone, are silicified to 
finely banded, grey-weathering, relatively opaque black chert (Fig. 17a). Thin veins of massive 
black chert, up to 5 cm wide, cross-cut the lamination locally. Silicification took place in an at least 
30 m-wide alteration zone beneath the contact with tectonically overlying pillow basalts of the 
Mendon Formation. On average, silicification intensifies towards the contact, although stratiform 
horizons of only poorly silicified sedimentary rocks may occur within the alteration zone. 
 
 
 
Figure 17. (a) Parallel- and cross-laminated carbonaceous chert c.15 m below the shear zone. 
Stratigraphic way-up is to the right. (b) Silicified pillow basalt consisting predominantly of massive 
black chert. 
 
Near the contact the silicified sedimentary rocks become complexly folded, ferruginized and 
intercalated with sheared shaley gossans that contain some scattered chert lenses. The contact itself 
is a 1 m-wide, highly strained gossan that shows an anastomosing foliation and a mylonitic fabric. 
The shear zone is overlain by a c. 30 m-thick zone of altered volcanic rocks, mostly pillow basalts, 
which are completely replaced by chert locally (Fig. 17b). Silicified volcanic rocks consist of black 
chert with fragments and diffuse patches of green chert. Silicification of the volcanic rocks is not 
continuous along the contact, and pillow basalt may be carbonated or Fe-oxide impregnated at other 
localities. 
     In thin section, silicified sandstone consists predominantly of chert with many silt- to fine sand-
sized quartz grains that withstood alteration to chert. Carbonaceous matter is absent, whereas 
disseminated idiomorphic sulphide grains do occur. Silicified basalt consists almost totally of chert 
that is present as angular fragments and matrix. Disseminated clots of carbonaceous matter are rare. 
Interpretation: The shear zone is a result of thrusting of Onverwacht Group rocks onto Fig Tree 
strata. That Fig Tree rocks were silicified adjacent to the shear zone is indicated by: (1) 
discontinuous or variably intense silicification of rocks adjacent to the shear zone vertically; (2) 
similar lithological attributes of the silicified sedimentary rocks compared to the underlying rocks 
(e.g., homogeneous coloration and lamination style); and (3) clear younging indicators in silicified 
rocks immediately below the shear zone. There is no evidence for a shear zone below the silicified 
rocks and that these cherts are part of an older chert sequence that was brought into place by 
folding (e.g., Lowe et al., 1999). Silicification of the overlying volcanic rocks is also related to the 
contact, because it intensifies downsection towards the contact. The alteration of sedimentary and 
 
26

--- Page 30 ---
 
 
volcanic rocks to chert along an unequivocal shear zone indicates that the alteration is a result of 
hydrothermal fluids that were channelled along the shear zone. Ferruginization of chert, and the 
shearing and brecciation in the gossaneous zone must have taken place after silicification. The 
gossan is a result of sulphide weathering, and the sulphides were probably introduced during 
reactivation of the shear zone during a later deformation event. 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
Carbonaceous cherts in the BGB span a time interval of more than 200 Ma. Despite this, they share 
very similar lithological attributes and relationships to surrounding rocks, suggesting that they 
formed by a common process. Sedimentary chert horizons are very continuous laterally. They 
always overlie volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks that are silicified in the uppermost few tens of 
metres. Geochemical evidence has been presented that this silicification is a result of low-
temperature (≤ ~150 °C) hydrothermal processes. Seawater, which was close to saturation with 
respect to amorphous silica (Siever, 1992), is thought to have circulated through the seafloor 
volcanics. The heat for convection was probably provided by a high regional heat flow during the 
early and mid-Archaean (Hofmann, 2005b). Precipitation of silica took place as a result of a 
decrease in silica solubility, when diffusely upflowing hydrothermal fluids came into contact with 
seawater near the seafloor. This resulted in the silicification of volcanic rocks close to the seafloor 
and the silicification of overlying biogeneous and tuffaceous sediments near the sediment-water 
interface (Hofmann, 2005b). Both rock types were affected by very similar chemical alteration 
processes, which resulted in the formation of very similar textural features. For example, 
translucent chert veins are a characteristic feature of altered ultramafic rocks, such as those 
underlying the Msauli Chert (Fig. 16a). The same veinlets are common in silicified rocks of 
ultramafic composition throughout the volcano-sedimentary sequence, including the massive green 
cherts in H3c that represent komatiitic tuffs. It also needs to be emphasized that alteration and 
silicification involved a variety of rocks types, including ultramafic volcaniclastic deposits below 
chert horizon K1c1, and dacite-derived conglomerates and sandstones below the Buck Reef Chert. 
The protolith did, therefore, not play a role for alteration zones to develop. Important was the 
presence of sedimentary chert beds overlying these zones. 
      Chert dykes play an important role in the understanding of the hydrothermal processes 
involved, because they provide evidence that these processes took place just below the seafloor and 
not during much later, post-burial hydrothermal activity. Carbonaceous matter in the chert dykes is 
petrographically identical to the kerogen in the sedimentary horizons. The presence of certain clasts 
admixed with the kerogen in the dykes, which were derived from overlying beds (such as impact 
spherules, Lowe and Byerly, 1986), suggests that the bulk of the carbonaceous matter was derived 
from sedimentary material that accumulated on the seafloor. The dykes do, therefore, not represent 
hydrothermal feeder channels for the sedimentary cherts, in a way analogous to modern seafloor 
hot spring deposits. But, neither can they be regarded as simple fissures that were filled by 
carbonaceous sedimentary material. Many veins contain angular host-rock fragments and show 
hydraulic fracture patterns, suggesting that they were initiated by the forceful intrusion of over-
pressured hydrothermal fluids. Observations, such as branching of dykes into stratiform veins, wall- 
rock replacement, multiple-dyke fillings, and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of dyke 
fillings, supports this view. 
     But how did the hydrothermal systems become over-pressured when they formed close to the 
seafloor? This can be explained by early silicification of seafloor sediments by hydrothermal 
activity. Syndepositional silicification of sedimentary deposits resulted in the formation of 
impermeable pathways for ascending hydrothermal fluids. Buildup of fluid pressure beneath the 
cap rocks resulted in ponding of hydrothermal fluids and breaching and brecciation of the cap rocks 
at times. This resulted in the formation of fractures in the alteration zones that were then infilled by 
not yet silicified carbonaceous sedimentary material overlying the silica caps, giving rise to the 
formation of carbonaceous chert dykes and veins. Ponding of hydrothermal fluids is indicated by 
 
27

--- Page 31 ---
 
 
the dramatic increase of chert veins immediately below sedimentary chert units (e.g., below the 
Buck Reef Chert). Breaching of the cap rocks, on the other hand, is evidenced by the occurrence of 
veins and dykes within, and the local brecciation of, the sedimentary chert horizons (e.g., at the top 
of the Kromberg Formation). The model presented here for the origin of the chert dykes is broadly 
similar to the one presented by Lowe and Byerly (1986). However, it emphasizes the importance of 
subseafloor hydrothermal processes, not only for the origin of the chert dykes, but also for the 
silicification of the overlying chert beds. Lowe (1999a), Knauth and Lowe (2003) and Tice and 
Lowe (2004) argued for a diagenetic origin of the early silicification, unrelated to hydrothermal 
activity. 
     Not all chert veins consist of carbonaceous sediment that was entrained into hydraulic fractures. 
Many veins consist of pure chert instead, and many of these show botryoidal features and cavity-
filling megaquartz, suggesting that the chert precipitated out of hydrothermal fluids. Such veins are 
typically stratiform and are probably related to fluid overpressure. Fluid pressure must have 
exceeded the pressure from the overlying sediment and water column at times, which resulted in 
the opening of fractures oriented parallel to the seafloor. These fractures were then filled by 
hydrothermal chert and quartz. When breaching of the cap rocks took place, sedimentary material 
was able to become entrained in the stratiform veins locally. Because many stratiform botryoidal 
chert veins postdate carbonaceous chert dykes, this type of process took place relatively late in the 
evolution of the hydrothermal systems, possibly because of the increase in the thickness of the 
capping cherts with time. Many modern subaerial hydrothermal deposits are characterized by 
extensive breccia deposits which form during hydrothermal eruptions in active geothermal fields 
(Browne and Lawless, 2001). The complete absence of such deposits in the BGB may suggest that 
water depths during deposition of many sedimentary cherts were not as shallow as assumed by 
many authors (Lanier and Lowe, 1982; Lowe, 1999a). 
     Besides the filling of hydrothermal veins, a few carbonaceous chert veins formed differently. 
Some carbonaceous chert beds did not become lithified before being buried by overlying strata. 
Rapid burial or earthquake shock may have resulted in sediment fluidization and mobilization of 
carbon-bearing gelatinous silica to form cross-cutting veins, as observed in the upper part of H3c. 
Carbonaceous cherts of the Buck Reef Chert, that show soft-sediment deformation features, may 
have been affected by similar processes. 
     Not all of the silicification was associated with hydrothermal processes on and below the 
seafloor. Instead, a variety of rocks situated adjacent to the Granville Grove Fault became silicified 
too. This type of silicification is best ascribed to hydrothermal fluids that were channelled along the 
shear zone. Disturbing is that such rocks are compositionally very similar to the other chert types. 
This means that care needs to be taken when using chert horizons as stratigraphic marker horizons, 
because they may have formed in the vicinity of shear zones. 
     Carbonaceous matter in the dykes was probably derived from the overlying sedimentary 
horizons. This is supported by very similar petrographic characteristics as well as geochemical and 
isotopic data (Hofmann, unpubl. data). The origin of the kerogen is not known and a matter of 
much debate. Shales and turbiditic greywackes of the Fig Tree Group in the northern part of the 
belt contain carbonaceous matter in similar proportions to the cherts (Reimer, 1975); carbon isotope 
data are also similar and are indicative of biological fractionation processes (Hayes et al., 1983; 
Walsh and Lowe, 1999; Hofmann, unpubl. data). Because mat-like carbon accumulations are rare, 
most of the carbonaceous matter probably settled out of the water column and may have originally 
formed in the shallow part of the Archaean ocean, possibly by modern pelagic organisms. Although 
the possibility that the carbon was derived from abiologically produced organics in the water 
column cannot be discounted, an organic origin appears far more plausible. Beside the ubiquitous 
kerogen clots and the more rare mat-like accumulations, secondary carbonaceous matter was 
observed in the pore space of carbonaceous chert at one locality (Fig. 6d). The origin of this 
material is not clear and it may represent the remains of degraded hydrocarbons. 
     This study highlights the importance of detailed field work prior to sampling of carbonaceous 
cherts for micropalaeontological or chemical analyses. Chert dykes are generally easy to distinguish 
 
28

--- Page 32 ---
 
 
from bedded sedimentary cherts, because of their cross-cutting geometry. Much more difficult to 
distinguish are stratiform veins in bedded chert host rocks, especially in areas of poor exposure. 
This is particularly difficult when they show layering, which can be very similar to sedimentary 
bedding. Furthermore, replacement of sedimentary rocks by chert is common in the vicinity of 
chert dykes. In addition, many translucent chert bands are secondary, and when present in stratified 
cherts, are very difficult to distinguish from primary chert precipitates. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ho 2507/1–1/2), Stichting 
Schürmannfonds (2003–2004/13), and the University of the Witwatersrand Research Committee. I 
am grateful to Johan Eksteen, Mpumalanga Parks Board, and Colin Wille, Taurus Estate, for access 
and hospitality. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
Anhaeusser, C.R., 1976. The geology of the Sheba Hills area of the Barberton Mountain Land, 
South Africa, with particular reference to the Eureka syncline. Trans. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 79, 
253-280. 
Armstrong, R.A., Compston, W., De Wit, M.J., Williams, I.S., 1990. The stratigraphy of the 3.5–
3.2 Ga Barberton greenstone belt revisited: a single zircon ion microprobe study. Earth 
Planet. Sci. Lett., 101, 90–106. 
Awramik, S.M., Schopf, J.W., Walter, M.R., 1983. Filamentous fossil bacteria from the Archean of 
Western Australia. Precambrian Res., 20, 357–374. 
Brasier, M.D., Green, O.R., Jephcoat, A. P., Kleppe, A.K., Van Kranendonk, M.J., Lindsay, J.F., 
Steele, A., Grassineau, N.V., 2002. Questioning the evidence for Earth´s oldest fossils. 
Nature, 416, 76–81. 
Browne, P.R.L., Lawless, J.V., 2001. Characteristics of hydrothermal eruptions, with examples 
from New Zealand and elsewhere. Earth Sci. Rev., 52, 299–331. 
Byerly, G. R., Lowe, D. R., Wooden, J. L., Xie, X., 2002. An Archean impact layer from the 
Pilbara and Kaapvaal cratons. Science, 297, 1325–1327. 
Byerly, G.R., Kröner, A., Lowe, D.R., Todt, W., Walsh, M.M., 1996. Prolonged magmatism and 
time constraints for sediment deposition in the early Archean Barberton greenstone belt: 
evidence from the Upper Onverwacht and Fig Tree groups. Precambrian Res., 78, 125–138. 
Compston, W., Kröner, A., 1988. Multiple zircon growth within early Archaean tonalitic gneiss 
from the Ancient Gneiss Complex, Swaziland. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 87, 13–28. 
Condie K. C., Macke J. E., Reimer T. O., 1970 Petrology and geochemistry of early Precambrian 
greywackes from the Fig Tree Group, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., 81, 2759–2776. 
De Wit, M.J., 1982. Gliding and overthrust nappe tectonics in the Barberton greenstone belt. J. 
Struct. Geol., 4, 117–136. 
De Wit, M.J., Hart, R.J., Martin, A., Abbott, P., 1982. Archaean abiogenic and probable biogenic 
structures associated with mineralized hydrothermal vent systems and regional 
metasomatism, with implications for greenstone belt studies. Econ. Geol., 77, 1783–1802. 
Duchac, K.C., Hanor, J.S., 1987. Origin and timing of metasomatic silicification of an early 
Archean komatiite sequence, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 
37, 125–146. 
Eriksson, K.A., 1980. Hydrodynamic and paleogeographic interpretation of turbidite deposits from 
the Archean Fig Tree Group of the Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. 
Amer., 91, 21–26. 
Garcia-Ruiz, J.M., Hyde, S.T., Carnerup, A.M., Christy, A.G., Van Kranendonk, M.J., Welham, 
N.J., 2003. Self-assembled silica-carbonate structures and detection of ancient microfossils. 
Science, 302, 1194–1197. 
 
29

--- Page 33 ---
 
 
Hanor, J.S., Duchac, K.C., 1990. Isovolumetric silicification of early Archean komatiites: 
geochemical mass balances and constraints on origin. J. Geol., 98, 863–877. 
Hayes, J.M., Kaplan I.R., Wedeking, K.W., 1983. Precambrian organic chemistry, preservation of 
the record. In: Schopf, J.W. (Ed.), Earth’s Earliest Biosphere – its Origin and Evolution. 
Princeton University Press, New Jersey, pp. 93–134. 
Heinrichs, T., 1980. Lithostratigraphische Untersuchungen in der Fig Tree Gruppe des Barberton 
Greenstone Belt zwischen Umsoli und Lomati (Südafrika). Göttinger Arbeiten zur Geologie 
und Paläontologie, 22, 118 pp. 
Heinrichs, T., 1984. The Umsoli chert, turbidite testament for a major phreatoplinian event at the 
Onverwacht/Fig Tree transition (Swaziland Supergroup, Archaean, South Africa). 
Precambrian Res., 24, 237–283. 
Heinrichs, T.K., Reimer, T.O., 1977. A sedimentary barite deposit from the Archean Fig Tree 
Group of the Barberton Mountain Land (South Africa). Econ. Geol.,72, 1426–1441. 
Hofmann, A., 2005a. The geochemistry of shales and cherts from the Fig Tree Group, Barberton 
greenstone belt: implications for tectonic, hydrothermal and surface processes during mid-
Archaean times. Precambrian Res. (submitted). 
Hofmann, A., 2005b. Stratiform alteration zones in the Barberton greenstone belt: a window into 
subseafloor processes 3.5–3.3 Ga ago. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett. (submitted). 
Horita, J., Berndt, M.E., 1999. Abiogenic methane formation and isotopic fractionation under 
hydrothermal conditions. Science, 285, 1055–1057. 
Jebrak, M., 1997. Hydrothermal breccias in vein-type ore deposits: A review of mechanisms, 
morphology and size distribution. Ore Geol. Rev., 12, 111–134. 
Kamo, S.L., Davis, D.W., 1994. Reassessment of Archean crustal development in the Barberton 
Mountain Land, South Africa, based on U-Pb dating. Tectonics, 13, 167–192. 
Knauth, L.P., Lowe, D.R., 1978. Oxygen isotope geochemistry of cherts from the Onverwacht 
Group (3.4 billion years), Transvaal, South Africa with implications for secular variations in 
the isotopic compositions of cherts. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 41, 209–222. 
Knauth, L.P., Lowe, D.R., 2003. High Archean climatic temperatures inferred from oxygen isotope 
geochemistry of cherts in the 3.5 Ga Swaziland Supergroup, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. 
Amer., 115, 566–580. 
Knoll, A.H., Barghoorn, E.S., 1977. Archean microfossils showing cell division from the 
Swaziland System of South Africa. Science, 198, 396–398. 
Kohler, E. A. and Anhaeusser, C. R. (2002). Geology  and  geodynamic  setting  of Archaean silicic 
 
metavolcaniclastic rocks of the Bien Venue Formation, Fig Tree Group, northeast Barberton 
 
greenstone belt, South Africa.  Precambrian  Res., 116, 199-235.                                         
Kröner, A., Byerly, G.R., Lowe, D.R., 1991. Chronology of early Archaean granite-greenstone 
evolution in the Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa, based on precise dating by single 
zircon evaporation. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 103, 41–54. 
Lanier, W.P., Lowe, D.R., 1982. Sedimentology of the Middle Marker (3.4 Ga), Onverwacht 
Group, Transvaal, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 18, 237–260. 
Laznicka, P., 1988. Breccias and coarse fragmentites: petrology, environments, associations, ores. 
Developments in Econ. Geol. 25, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 832 pp. 
Lowe, D.R., 1999a. Petrology and sedimentology of cherts and related silicified sedimentary rocks 
in the Swaziland Supergroup. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of 
the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 83–114. 
Lowe, D. R., 1999b. Shallow-water sedimentation of accretionary lapilli-bearing strata of the 
Msauli Chert: Evidence of explosive hydro-magmatic komatiitic volcanism. In: Lowe, D.R., 
Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. 
Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 213–232. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 1986. Archean flow-top alteration zones formed initially in a low-
temperature sulphate-rich environment. Nature, 324, 245–248. 
 
30

--- Page 34 ---
 
 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 1999. Stratigraphy of the west-central part of the Barberton Greenstone 
Belt, South Africa. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the 
Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 1–36. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 2003. Field Guide to the Geology of the 3.5–3.2 Ga Barberton 
Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Guidebook prepared for Field Conference, Archean Surface 
Processes, June 23–July 2, 2003, 184 pp. 
Lowe, D.R., Fisher Worrel, G., 1999. Sedimentology, mineralogy, and implications of silicified 
evaporites in the Kromberg Formation, Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. In: Lowe, 
D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South 
Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 167–188. 
Lowe, D.R., Knauth, L.P., 1977. Sedimentology of the Onverwacht Group (3.4 billion years), 
Transvaal, South Africa, and its bearing on the characteristics and evolution of the early 
Earth. J. Geol., 85, 699–723. 
Lowe, D. R., Nocita, B.W., 1999. Foreland basin sedimentation in the Mapepe Formation, 
southern-facies Fig Tree Group. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of 
the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 233–258. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Heubeck, C., 1999. Structural divisions and development of the west-
central part of the Barberton greenstone belt. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic 
Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 
329, 37–82.  
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Ransom, B.L., Nocita, B.W., 1985. Stratigraphic and sedimentological 
evidence bearing on structural repetition in early Archaean rocks of the Barberton 
greenstone belt, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 27, 165–186. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Kyte, F., Shukolyukov, A., Asaro, F., Krull, A., 2003. Spherule beds 
3.47–3.24 billion years old in the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa: a record of large 
meteorite impacts and their influence on early crustal and biological evolution. 
Astrobiology, 3, 7–48. 
Mojzsis, S.J., Arrhenius, G., McKeegan, K.D., Harrison, T.M., Nutman, A.P., Friend, C.R.L., 1996. 
Evidence for life on Earth before 3,800 million years ago. Nature, 384, 55–59. 
Nijman, W., De Bruijne, K.C.H., Valkering, M.E., 1999. Growth fault control of Early Archaean 
cherts, barite mounds and chert-barite veins, North Pole Dome, Eastern Pilbara, Western 
Australia. Precambrian Res., 95, 247–274. 
Oehler, D.Z., Schopf, J.W., Kvenvolden, K.A., 1972. Carbon isotopic studies of organic matter in 
Precambrian rocks. Science, 175, 1246–1248. 
Paris, I.A., 1990. Depositional environment of the Onverwacht sedimentary rocks, Barberton 
greenstone belt, South Africa. J. Afr. Earth Sci., 10, 509–518. 
Paris, I., Stanistreet, I.G., Hughes, M.J., 1985. Cherts of the Barberton greenstone belt interpreted 
as products of submarine exhalative activity. J. Geol., 93, 111–129. 
Schidlowski, M., 1988. A 3800-million-year isotopic record of life from carbon in sedimentary 
rocks. Nature, 333, 313–318. 
Schopf, J.W., Walter, M.R., 1983. Archean microfossils: new evidence of ancient microbes. In: 
Schopf, J.W. (Ed.), Earth´s Earliest Biosphere: its Origin and Evolution. Princeton 
University Press, New Jersey, pp. 214–239. 
Schopf, J.W., Kudryavtsev, A. B., Agresti, D.G., Wdowiak, T.J., Czaja, A.D., 2002. Laser–Raman 
imagery of Earth´s earliest fossils. Nature, 416, 73–76. 
Siever, R., 1992. The silica cycle in the Precambrian. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 56, 
3265–3272. 
Stanistreet, I.G., Hughes, M.J., 1984. Pseudoconglomerate and a re-examination of some 
palaeoenvironmental controversies. Geology, 12, 717–719. 
Tice, M. M., Lowe, D.R., 2004. Photosynthetic microbial mats in the 3,416-Myr-old ocean. Nature, 
431, 549–552. 
 
31

--- Page 35 ---
 
 
Ueno, Y., Yoshioka, H., Maruyama, S., Isozaki, Y., 2004. Carbon isotopes and petrography of 
kerogens in ~3.5-Ga hydrothermal silica dikes in the North Pole area, Western Australia. 
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 68, 573–589. 
Van Zuilen, M.A., Lepland, A., Arrhenius, G., 2002. Reassessing the evidence for the earliest 
traces of life. Nature, 418, 627–629. 
Viljoen, R. P., Viljoen, M.J., 1969a. The geological and geochemical significance of the upper 
formations of the Onverwacht Group. Spec. Publ. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 2, 113–151. 
Viljoen, M.J., Viljoen, R.P., 1969b. An introduction to the geology of the Barberton granite-
greenstone terrain. Spec. Publ. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 2, 9–28. 
Walsh, M.M., 1992. Microfossils and possible microfossils from the early Archean Onverwacht 
Group, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 54, 271–293. 
Walsh, M.M., Lowe, D.R., 1985. Filamentous microfossils from the 3,500-Myr-old Onverwacht 
Group, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Nature, 314, 530–532. 
Walsh, M.M., Lowe, D.R., 1999. Modes of accumulation of carbonaceous matter in the Early 
Archean: a petrographic and geochemical study of the carbonaceous cherts of the Swaziland 
Supergroup. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton 
Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 115–132. 
Westall, F., De Wit, M. J., Dann, J. C., Van der Gaast, S., De Ronde, C. E. J., Gerneke, D. 2001. 
Early Archean fossil bacteria and biofilms in hydrothermally influenced sediments from the 
Barberton greenstone belt, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 106, 93–116. 
Williams, D.A.C., Furnell, R.G., 1979. Reassessment of part of the Barberton type area, South 
Africa. Precambrian Res., 9, 325–347. 
 
___________________oOo____________________ 
 
 
32

--- Page 0 ---
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC GEOLOGY 
RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
University of the Witwatersrand 
Johannesburg 
y
 
 
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS 
 IN THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT,  
SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
 
 
AXEL HOFMANN 
 
 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR No. 387 

--- Page 1 ---
UNIVERSITY OF THE WITWATERSRAND 
JOHANNESBURG 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON  
GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AXEL HOFMANN 
 
(School of Geosciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Private Bag 3, 
 P.O. Wits 2050, Johannesburg, South Africa 
 
present address: School of Geological Sciences, Howard College Campus. 
 University of KwaZulu-Natal, 4041 Durban, South Africa) 
 
 email: hofmann@ukzn.ac.za 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECONOMIC GEOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
INFORMATION CIRCULAR No. 387 
 
 
January, 2005

--- Page 2 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The 3500-3200 Ma old volcano-sedimentary succession of the Barberton greenstone belt, South 
Africa, is characterized by lithological units that are repeated in a regular manner. Ultramafic to 
dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic sequences are typically capped by zones of silica enrichment, 
followed by beds of sedimentary cherts that are rich in carbonaceous matter. Cross-cutting 
carbonaceous chert dykes and veins are common in silica alteration zones and bedded cherts. A 
detailed field study of several chert horizons covering most of the stratigraphic succession of the 
Barberton belt revealed the importance of syndepositional hydrothermal activity for their origin. 
Bedded cherts consist of silicified sedimentary and tuffaceous material that was deposited on the 
seafloor. Silicification took place at the sediment-water interface, as a result of diffuse upflow of 
low-temperature hydrothermal fluids. This resulted in the formation of cap rocks impermeable for 
ascending hydrothermal fluids. Fluid overpressure resulted in the breaching of the cap rocks at 
times. Chert dykes contain angular host rock fragments, replace wall rocks, and show evidence of 
multiple dyke fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of dyke fillings. They represent 
hydraulic fractures that were initiated by overpressuring of the hydrothermal system. The resulting 
vein networks, in both volcanic and sedimentary rocks, were then infilled, partly by hydrothermal 
chert precipitates, and partly by still unconsolidated sedimentary material derived from overlying 
sedimentary horizons. Most carbonaceous matter represents sedimentary material and did not form 
by hydrothermal processes, which supports a biogenic origin. 
 
______________oOo______________ 

--- Page 3 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
CONTENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
GEOLOGICAL SETTING  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT -  
 
TERMINOLOGY AND REVIEW  
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
Field Distribution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Composition  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Origin  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Silicification  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Palaeontological Significance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
Kromberg Formation - K1c1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Buck Reef Chert 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
Kromberg Formation - K3c  
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 
Barite Valley Syncline 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Msauli Chert  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
 
Central Study Area, Fig Tree–Onverwacht Contact 
 
 
 
26 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
REFERENCES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
 
_______________oOo_______________ 
 
 
Published by the Economic Geology Research Institute 
School of Geosciences 
University of the Witwatersrand 
1 Jan Smuts Avenue 
Johannesburg 
South Africa 
http://www.wits.ac.za/geosciences/egri.htm
 
ISBN 0-9584855-4-2 
 
 

--- Page 4 ---
ON THE ORIGIN OF ARCHAEAN CARBONACEOUS CHERTS  
AS DEDUCED FROM FIELD OBSERVATIONS IN THE BARBERTON 
 GREENSTONE BELT, SOUTH AFRICA 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Chert is a minor, but important component of early Archaean greenstone belts of the Kaapvaal 
Craton in southern Africa and the Pilbara Craton in Western Australia. Chert, in the c. 3550 to 3220 
Ma old Swaziland Supergroup of the Barberton greenstone belt (BGB) in South Africa, forms 
thinly bedded, stratiform horizons and consists of microcrystalline quartz with minor amounts of 
phyllosilicates, carbonate and oxide minerals, and carbonaceous matter (Lowe, 1999a; Walsh and 
Lowe, 1999). A distinct variety of black, commonly carbonaceous, chert forms cross-cutting veins 
that are present in particular stratigraphic units, and mostly beneath stratiform chert horizons. 
     Chert horizons have yielded important information on: (1) the (tectono-) stratigraphy of the 
BGB, because they represent good marker horizons (Viljoen and Viljoen, 1969a; Williams and 
Furnell, 1979; De Wit, 1982; Lowe and Byerly, 1999) and may contain volcanic or detrital zircons 
useful for dating purposes (Armstrong et al., 1990; Kröner et al., 1991; Byerly et al., 1996, 2002); 
(2) the environment and tectonic setting of the volcano-sedimentary sequence, with sedimentary 
structures providing indicators of palaeo-water depth (Lowe and Knauth, 1977; Lanier and Lowe, 
1982; Paris, 1990; Lowe, 1999a); and (3) the temperature and composition of the Archaean ocean, 
as deduced from evaporite pseudomorphs and  18O signals (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 1999; 
Knauth and Lowe, 1978, 2002). Most importantly perhaps, carbonaceous chert horizons in the BGB 
and greenstone belts of the Pilbara Craton contain the oldest morphological evidence for life on 
Earth in the form of microfossils (Awramik, 1983; Walsh, 1992; Westall et al., 2001; Schopf, 
2002), indicating that life evolved early in geological history. However, the oldest microfossil-like 
structures of putative biological origin from 3465 Ma cherts in greenstone belts of the Pilbara 
Craton have also been regarded as secondary artefacts (Brasier et al., 2002). This reinterpretation is 
partly based on the presence of the microfossil-like structures in black chert dykes, interpreted to 
represent high-temperature (>250°C) hydrothermal veins rather than primary sedimentary chert. In 
addition, micron-sized filaments that are similar to filamentous microfossils have been synthesized 
inorganically (Garcia-Ruiz et al., 2003), casting further doubt on the currently accepted evidence 
for life forms in ancient cherts. Similarly problematic are light carbon isotope signatures of ancient 
carbonaceous matter, which, although long been cited as evidence that life evolved probably as 
early as 4000 Ma ago (Schidlowski, 1988; Mojzsis et al., 1996), may not record a biological signal 
(Horita and Berndt, 1999; Van Zuilen et al., 2002). The same may be true for the light  13C values 
obtained from early Archaean black cherts from the BGB and the Pilbara Craton (e.g., Oehler et al., 
1972; Hayes et al., 1983; Walsh and Lowe, 1999; Ueno et al., 2004). Better constraints on the 
origin of the carbonaceous matter in Archaean cherts is thus fundamental for an understanding of 
the early biological record. This study presents a summary of detailed field observations on the 
occurrence of carbonaceous cherts and their relationships with the host rocks at several 
stratigraphic levels of the BGB. 
 
 GEOLOGICAL SETTING 
 
The BGB (Fig. 1) is one of the key areas for the study of mid-Archaean supracrustal sequences. 
The belt consists of a NE–SW striking, tightly folded succession of supracrustal rocks, termed the 
Swaziland Supergroup, and is surrounded by granitoid domes. The volcano-sedimentary sequence 
is subdivided into three stratigraphic units, the Onverwacht, Fig Tree and Moodies Groups. The 
Onverwacht Group formed between c. 3550 and 3300 Ma and consists of submarine ultramafic-
mafic volcanic rocks and minor felsic volcanic and sedimentary rocks. South of the Inyoka Fault, 
the Onverwacht Group has been subdivided into six formations (Fig. 2), the Sandspruit, Theespruit, 
Komati, Hooggenoeg, Kromberg and Mendon (previously Swartkoppie) Formations (Viljoen and 

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
Viljoen, 1969b; Lowe and Byerly, 1999). The Theespruit Formation is separated from the Komati 
Formation by the Komati Fault, whereas the overlying formations of the Onverwacht Group are, 
apart from local complexities, in stratigraphic continuity. Metamorphic grade is mainly greenschist 
facies, but locally reaches amphibolite facies close to intrusive plutons, in particular in the 
Sandspruit and Theespruit Formations. Onverwacht Group rocks north of the Inyoka Fault have 
been grouped together as the Weltevreden Formation (Lowe and Byerly, 1999). Differences in the 
stratigraphy, ages and depositional environments of rocks north and south of the Inyoka Fault 
suggests that the fault zone represents a tectono-stratigraphic boundary. 
 
 
Figure 1.   Geological map of the western part of the Barberton greenstone belt 
 (modified from Kamo and Davis, 1994; Lowe and Byerly, 1999). 
 
The Fig Tree Group, c. 3260-3226 Ma in age (Kröner et al., 1991; Byerly et al., 1996), comprises 
different facies associations in the northern and southern portions of the belt. The northern facies 
consists mainly of relatively deep-water turbiditic greywacke and shale with felsic volcaniclastic 
rocks at the top (Condie et al., 1970; Eriksson, 1980; Lowe and Byerly, 1999; Kohler and 
 
2

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
Anhaeusser, 2002). The southern facies is compositionally more variable and formed in a 
predominantly shallow-water setting. It includes a lower unit of shale, greywacke and jaspilitic 
banded iron formation, a middle unit of sandstone, shale and conglomerate with local detrital barite 
beds, and an upper unit of felsic volcaniclastic rocks (Heinrichs, 1980; Lowe and Nocita, 1999; 
Hofmann, 2005a). Two distinct sedimentary horizons (S2, S3) with spherules, interpreted to 
represent quenched liquid silicate droplets of meteorite impact origin (Lowe et al., 2003), occur at 
the base of both the northern and southern Fig Tree facies and in the middle part of the southern 
facies. 
     The Moodies Group was deposited at c. 3226 Ma ago (Kamo and Davis, 1994) and consists of 
shallow-marine to fluvial sandstone and conglomerate with minor shale and banded iron formation. 
The succession comprises relatively quartz-rich, predominantly arenaceous rocks in contrast to the 
more quartz-poor Fig Tree sandstones. The Moodies Group is c. 3 km thick and has been 
subdivided by Anhaeusser (1976) into three formations, each of which is a fining-upward sequence, 
ranging from conglomerates or pebbly sandstones at the base, to a thick sandstone unit, to capping 
siltstones and shales. 
     The BGB was intruded by a variety of granitoids during several magmatic episodes. The 
granitoids, with an age range from c. 3500 to 3200 Ma (Kamo and Davis, 1994), belong to the 
tonalite, trondhjemite, granodiorite (TTG) suite and have a prominent gneissic fabric, whereas the 
younger, c. 3100 Ma granitoids, are potassium-rich and form prominent sheets of granodiorite and 
monzogranite. Pre-Onverwacht Group tonalitic to granitic gneisses (Ancient Gneiss Complex) 
occur southeast of the greenstone belt in Swaziland and have been dated at c. 3644 Ma (Compston 
and Kröner, 1988). 
 
 CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT -  
TERMINOLOGY AND REVIEW 
 
Field Distribution 
 
Based on the spatial relationship with the country rock, two distinct chert units can be 
distinguished: (1) stratiform horizons; and (2) veins that cut across stratification, the latter termed 
chert dykes. Stratiform chert horizons are typically 1-20 m thick, except for the Buck Reef Chert 
(Fig. 2), which reaches a thicknesses of a few hundred metres (Viljoen and Viljoen, 1969b; Lowe 
and Byerly, 1999). With the exception of the Sandspruit and Komati Formations and to a lesser 
extent the Theespruit Formation, stratiform cherts are common throughout the Onverwacht Group 
and the lower part of the Fig Tree Group, but are rare to absent in the upper Fig Tree and Moodies 
Groups. Chert horizons frequently overlie ultramafic, mafic, and dacitic volcanic rocks that are 
intensely silicified in the uppermost few tens of metres (De Wit et al., 1982; Paris et al., 1985; 
Lowe and Byerly, 1986; Duchac and Hanor, 1987; Hanor and Duchac, 1990; Hofmann, 2005b). 
     Chert dykes are 0.1 to 3 m wide, up to a few hundred metres in length, and cross-cut the country 
rock mostly perpendicular to stratification. They are volumetrically much less important than 
stratiform chert horizons. Chert dykes are restricted to the Onverwacht Group and occur most 
commonly beneath stratiform chert horizons. Anastomosing chert veins that are oriented 
subparallel to stratification are commonly associated with the dykes. Chert dykes in the Barberton 
belt have never been the subject of a detailed study, and much of the present work is aimed at 
understanding the origin of these features. 
 
3

--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Stratigraphic logs of the Barberton greenstone belt from the western and eastern limbs of 
the Onverwacht Anticline (modified from Lowe and Byerly, 1999).  
 
 
 
4

--- Page 8 ---
 
 
Composition 
 
The petrography of stratiform chert horizons of the BGB has recently been summarized by Lowe 
(1999a). The cherts consist of microcrystalline quartz with minor, but varying amounts of 
phyllosilicates (sericite, chlorite), carbonates (calcite, dolomite, siderite), iron oxides, and 
carbonaceous matter. SiO2 contents mostly exceed 90 wt. %. The cherts range in colour from green 
to grey to black; green colours are attributed to finely dispersed chlorite and Cr-rich sericitic mica 
(herein regarded as fuchsite), whereas dark grey to black coloration is attributed to the presence of 
carbonaceous matter. Red jaspilitic cherts also occur, but they are mainly associated with 
ferruginous shales of the Fig Tree Group. 
     Of particular importance for the purpose of this study are black cherts rich in carbonaceous 
matter. The carbonaceous matter occurs in four main petrographic varieties including fine 
laminations, irregularly-shaped simple grains, lobate clumps or composite grains, and wisps that are 
interpreted to represent compacted carbonaceous grains (Walsh and Lowe, 1999). Carbonaceous 
cherts include thinly bedded heterolithic rocks (black and white banded cherts), and laminated and 
massive black chert varieties. Black and white banded cherts are made up of layers of carbonaceous 
chert and white-weathering translucent chert. 
 
Origin 
 
Stratiform chert horizons consist of a variety of silicified sediments (Lowe and Knauth, 1977; 
Lanier and Lowe, 1982; Heinrichs, 1984; Paris, 1990; Lowe, 1999a; Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 
1999). Four main groups have been identified by Lowe (1999a): (1) volcaniclastic and pyroclastic 
deposits; (2) terrigenous sediments; (3) biogenic sediments; and (4) orthochemical deposits. The 
first group includes silicified beds of komatiitic ash and accretionary lapilli that commonly overlie 
komatiitic volcanic sequences and are typically represented by light-green to greenish-grey cherts. 
Silicified dacitic volcaniclastic sediments occur at the top of the Hooggenoeg Formation and at the 
base of the Fig Tree Group, whereas basaltic, sediment-derived cherts are less common or less easy 
to distinguish. The latter chert types contain admixed carbonaceous matter and are typically well 
laminated cherts of various shades of grey. Silicified terrigenous sediments include black cherts 
derived from sandstone and siltstone in the lower Fig Tree Group and possibly from carbonaceous 
shales in the Onverwacht Group. Massive to laminated black cherts and black and white banded 
cherts have been regarded as silicified biogenic sediments by Lowe (1999a). They are common 
throughout the Onverwacht Group with banded cherts being particularly well developed in the 
Buck Reef Chert. Silicified orthochemical deposits include rare silicified evaporites, possibly 
primary sea-floor silica deposits in the form of translucent cherts, and banded iron formation and 
associated ferruginous rocks. Silicified volcanic rocks are also common, especially in alteration 
zones beneath chert horizons (Duchac and Hanor, 1987; Hofmann, 2005b), and are a distinct group 
altogether. 
 
Silicification 
 
According to Lowe (1999a), silicification of many sedimentary chert horizons (shallow-water 
deposits in particular) took place very early in the depositional history. This is indicated, for 
example, by the preservation of a high primary porosity (now infilled by chert) in coarse-grained 
clastic and tuffaceous deposits, the absence of compaction features, and the presence of chert clasts 
in intraformational breccias and conglomerates. Controversy surrounds the cause of silicification. 
Some authors associate silicification with convective circulation of hydrothermal fluids, resulting in 
subsurface metasomatism and/or deposition of silicious exhalites around hydrothermal vents (De 
Wit et al., 1982; Paris et al., 1985; Duchac and Hanor, 1987). Lowe (1999a), on the other hand, 
suggested that much of the silicification took place during interaction between sea water and 
sediments close to the sediment-water interface, as indicated, for example, by evidence for very 
 
5

--- Page 9 ---
 
 
early silicification over wide areas and the absence of more typical exhalative deposits, such as 
sinter or massive sulphide deposits. Hofmann (2005b) presented evidence for silicification of sea 
floor sediments and underlying volcanic rocks by low-temperature hydrothermal activity as a result 
of high regional heat flow. 
 
Palaeontological Significance 
 
A variety of spherical, rod-shaped and filamentous microscopic features that consist of 
carbonaceous matter have been recorded from Onverwacht and Fig Tree Group cherts and 
interpreted as microfossils in numerous early studies (references in Schopf and Walter, 1983). A re-
evaluation of the purported microfossils by Schopf and Walter (1983) led to the conclusion that 
only a few features could be regarded as being of possible biogenic origin, whereas others were 
regarded as nonfossils, including pseudofossils, artifacts of sample preparation, and modern 
contaminants. More recent reports of filamentous microfossils and traces of bacterial activity in 
carbonaceous cherts include studies by Walsh and Lowe (1985), Walsh (1992), Westall et al. 
(2001), and Tice and Lowe (2004). These studies focused on carbonaceous cherts of the uppermost 
Hooggenoeg and Kromberg Formations. 
 
CHERTS OF THE BARBERTON GREENSTONE BELT 
 
Stratiform chert horizons and chert dykes have been investigated at several stratigraphic levels in 
many different parts of the greenstone belt, from the Hooggenoeg Formation to the Fig Tree Group 
(Figs. 1, 2). Cherts at the top of the Onverwacht Group and those associated with the Fig Tree 
Group have been investigated mainly in the central part of the greenstone belt (Fig. 3), herein 
referred to as the central study area.  
     Carbonaceous cherts are generally dark grey to black, and fresh rock splinters are opaque. On 
the other hand, black cherts are not necessarily carbonaceous, especially black cherts that, when 
fresh, are translucent to some degree. Translucent cherts commonly show botryoidal features. In the 
following account the term carbonaceous will be used for cherts where carbonaceous matter has 
been identified in thin section. Terms like opaque and translucent will be used for black cherts that 
were only studied in the field. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation 
 
The Hooggenoeg Formation (Fig. 2) overlies the Middle Marker chert, dated at 3472±5 Ma 
(Armstrong et al., 1990), and consists of massive and pillow basalt, spinifex-textured komatiitic 
basalt, thin silicified sedimentary horizons, and, at the top of the sequence, intrusive dacitic 
volcanic rocks and an epiclastic sedimentary unit. The dacitic rocks have been dated at c. 3445 Ma 
(Armstrong et al., 1990). Lowe and Byerly (1999) subdivided the succession into several 
stratigraphic units (H2-H5), each of which is represented by a volcanic interval (H2v-H5v) that is 
capped by a 1-15 m thick chert horizon (H2c-H5c). The Middle Marker is regarded as H1 and the 
dacitic volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks are denoted as H6. Each chert horizon is underlain by a 
metasomatic alteration zone that is characterized by silicification, the presence of Cr-bearing 
sericite, stratiform chert, quartz and carbonate veins, and, locally, chert dykes. 
 
 
6

--- Page 10 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Geological map of an area in the central part of the Barberton greenstone belt, termed 
the central study area (see Fig. 1 for location). Note the tectonic duplication of the Mendon 
Formation and overlying Fig Tree Group. Sedimentary rocks below, and volcanic rocks above, the 
thrust fault are altered to black chert. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation - H3c 
 
Description: A 10-15 m thick and laterally continuous chert horizon (H3c of Lowe and Byerly, 
1999) occurs in the middle part of the Hooggenoeg Formation (Fig. 2). In the study area (Fig. 1, 
locality 1), the chert is underlain by pillow basalt, which is silicified in the uppermost 30 m. 
Silicification increases towards the basalt-chert contact. Anastomosing veins of carbonaceous chert, 
up to 8 cm wide and oriented subparallel to the stratification, occur in the uppermost 2.5 m of the 
basalt sequence and increase in frequency upsection (Fig. 4a). Some veins grade laterally from 
massive carbonaceous chert into botryoidal black and white chert with internal quartz 
mineralization. 
     The contact between basalt and bedded chert is sharp and planar. The chert horizon commences 
with a laminated carbonaceous chert that locally contains a bed of fine basalt pebble conglomerate. 
A thin basalt flow also occurs near the base, but is sheared out locally. Black chert is overlain by 
stratified, but otherwise massive, greenish-grey chert, followed by unstratified greenish-grey chert 
that contains cm-scale translucent chert veinlets. Apart from crude layering, no sedimentary 
structures are present. Massive chert is succeeded by stratified greenish-grey chert, followed by 
interbedded greenish-grey and black carbonaceous chert. Soft-sediment deformation features are 
common in the latter unit, as indicated by common load structures of grey chert into black chert and 
sediment convolution (Fig. 5a). A second carbonaceous chert variety forms massive, mostly 
bedding-parallel veins, up to 15 cm wide, in the uppermost two chert units (Fig. 4a). The veins 
cross-cut, and contain fragments of, the host rock (Fig. 5b). The chert horizon is overlain by poorly 
exposed, massive, but not silicified mafic volcanic rocks. 
 
 
7

--- Page 11 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Simplified measured sections of (a) chert horizon H3c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, (b) 
chert horizon H5c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, and (c) a section exposed beneath chert horizon 
K1c1 of the Kromberg Formation. 
 
Both bedded and cross-cutting black cherts contain carbonaceous matter, mostly in the form of 
equant to elongate, but also disrupted, irregular grains that range from silt size up to 1 mm in 
diameter and are typically 200µm across. Grains in the lowermost bedded chert, and in veins 
cutting basalt, are loosly packed (Fig. 6a), whereas grains in sedimentary and vein chert near the 
top have been somewhat flattened as a result of compaction (Fig. 6b). Cross-cutting cherts contain 
sand-sized grains that are replaced by chert or phyllosilicates, some of which are enveloped by 
carbonaceous matter. Idiomorphic sulphide grains, 50-200µm in diameter, are common and are, in 
places, associated with cross-cutting chert veinlets. 
 
8

--- Page 12 ---
 
 
Interpretation:  Chert horizon H3c consists of mainly two varieties of silicified sediments. 
Greenish-grey chert represents subaquatically deposited and reworked, silicified tuff beds of 
komatiitic basalt composition (Hofmann, unpubl. data). Laminated black chert probably represents 
background suspension sediments that were laid down during intervals of volcanic quiescence. 
Detailed sections of H3c were reported by Lowe (1999a), who regarded the rocks as having formed 
in a shallow subtidal setting. In contrast, veins of massive black chert are not directly part of the 
sedimentary sequence. The veins can neither be regarded as simple fissures that were filled by 
carbonaceous sedimentary material, nor as feeder channels for the sedimentary black cherts, as 
indicated by their stratiform geometry as well as cross-cutting relationships with banded cherts. 
Many veins contain angular host rock fragments and show hydraulic fracture patterns (cf. Laznicka, 
1988; Jebrak, 1997), suggesting that they were initiated by the forceful intrusion of overpressured 
fluids. The presence of botryoidal chert and megaquartz in veins along the basalt-chert contact is 
consistent with a hydrothermal origin of the fluids. On the other hand, all chert types are 
petrographically very similar, because they contain sand-sized carbonaceous grains of apparent 
detrital origin. Because carbonaceous chert with plastic deformation features occurs in the 
sequence, some vein chert (especially that near the top of the sequence) may have been derived 
from sedimentary chert by dewatering and squeezing out of gelatinous silica during compaction. 
That the chert became lithified relatively late is attested by some compaction of the carbonaceous 
matter. A small-scale hydrothermal system that was initially open to the sediment-water interface, 
but became closed during progressive sedimentation and silicification, resulting in the buildup of 
fluid overpressure and hydraulic fracturing, may have resulted in the formation of similar features, 
like the veins that occur at the base of the section. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. (a) Load and flame structures at the base of a grey chert bed overlying black chert. 
Bedding in black chert is strongly convoluted. (b) Stratiform black chert vein transecting stratified 
grey chert. Note the fracturing of host rock by chert veins. 
 
 
9

--- Page 13 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Photomicrographs of carbonaceous sedimentary cherts and chert dykes; plane polarized 
light, scale bars are 500 µm long. (a) Carbonaceous grains in chert dyke below chert horizon H3c. 
Note idiomorphic sulphide grain (top centre). (b) Flattened carbonaceous grains near the top of 
H3c. (a) Loosly packed disrupted fragments of carbonaceous chert in a chert dyke below H5c. (d) 
Single and composite carbonaceous grains in sedimentary chert K1c1. Note botryoidal cements 
that enclose carbonaceous material (arrows). (e) Ellipsoidal carbonaceous grains filling a chert 
dyke below the Buck Reef Chert. (f) Silicified siltstone containing disseminated carbonaceous 
grains. 
 
Hooggenoeg Formation - H5c 
 
Description: A few hundred metres thick sequence of pillow basalt and minor massive basalt forms 
the uppermost part of the Hooggenoeg Formation on the east limb of the Onverwacht Anticline 
(Fig. 2). The basalt sequence is capped by a thin chert horizon (H5c of Lowe and Byerly, 1999) that 
 
10

--- Page 14 ---
 
 
has been studied at one locality (Fig. 1, locality 2). Starting from c. 50 m below the chert bed, 
pillow basalt becomes silicified upsection and is transected by a network of massive carbonaceous 
chert veins in the uppermost 5 m (Fig. 4b). The veins have a random orientation and become more 
common and wider (5-25 cm) upsection, resulting in an equal chert- to host-rock ratio near the top 
(Fig. 7a). The dykes surround, rather than contain, angular basalt fragments, and some dykes 
consist of several generations of dyke material. Rare irregular contacts between chert and host rock 
indicate minor host-rock replacement (Fig. 7b). 
     Chert-veined basalt is capped by a c. 1 m-thick horizon of massive to thinly laminated black 
carbonaceous chert. Black chert is overlain by laminated grey chert, which contains some normally 
graded laminae with accretionary lapilli. Where the basalt-chert contact is exposed, chert sharply 
overlies silicified basalt that contains abundant translucent chert veins and patches; black chert 
forms stratiform veins 10 cm below the contact. Rare bedding-parallel veins of botryoidal black and 
white chert are present in the chert horizon, indicating that it too was affected by chert veining. The 
chert horizon is overlain along a sharp and planar contact by a dacite cobble conglomerate that 
forms the base of a c. 170 m-thick, upward-fining sedimentary sequence (Viljoen and Viljoen, 
1969a). Cross-cutting veins of botryoidal chert are rare. 
     Sedimentary black chert consists predominantly of equant, sand-sized, carbonaceous grains. 
Chert dykes consist of different domains. One domain consists of tightly packed, equant, sand-
sized, carbonaceous grains similar to the sedimentary chert. Later, cross-cutting material consists of 
loosly packed, irregular fragments of the latter (Fig. 6c). 
 
 
 
Figure 7. (a) Network of black chert veins cross-cutting silicified basalt 2-3 m below the basalt-
chert contact. (b) Irregular, finger-like protrusions of black chert replacing silicified basalt. 
 
Interpretation: Chert horizon H5c is compositionally similar to H3c. Greenish-grey chert represents 
silicified basaltic to komatiitic tuff beds, as indicated by the presence of accretionary lapilli and 
trace element contents (Hofmann, unpubl. data), whereas laminated black chert represents 
background suspension sediments that include possible biogenic material. Filamentous microfossils 
have been reported from this horizon to the north of the study locality (Walsh and Lowe, 1985; 
Walsh, 1992). The planar contact between chert and conglomerate indicates lithification of the 
chert bed prior to deposition of the conglomerate. This relationship is also indicated by the presence 
of rare black and grey chert clasts in the conglomerate, suggesting local erosion of the chert bed. 
     Black chert veins transecting basalt beneath the chert horizon are interpreted to be of 
hydrothermal origin. This is indicated by the geometry of the fracture pattern and wall rock 
replacement. On the other hand, the compositions of both chert varieties are similar. Both contain 
carbonaceous grains, suggesting a genetic link between dykes and sedimentary horizons. However, 
chert dykes also exhibit a high proportion of internal cross-cutting veins that contain fragments of 
carbonaceous chert, thus reflecting a multistage development. 
 
11

--- Page 15 ---
 
 
     Diffuse upflow of hydrothermal fluids is envisaged during deposition of the sedimentary chert 
precursor. This system became closed during progressive sedimentation and hydrothermal sediment 
silicification. The sedimentary chert horizon acted as a poorly permeable barrier for ascending 
fluids, resulting in fluid overpressure and hydraulic fracturing of the basalt. The fractures were 
filled with detrital material from the overlying sediments for some time before the hydraulic system 
was sealed again and the next cycle of pressure buildup and fracturing took place. Rare botryoidal 
chert veins cutting overlying conglomerate suggest that the hydrothermal system was active well 
after deposition and lithification of the conglomerate unit. Alternatively, these chert veins are part 
of a much later hydrothermal event. 
 
Kromberg Formation - K1c1 
 
Description: A banded chert horizon near the base of the Kromberg Formation (Fig. 2), termed 
K1c1 and correlated with the Buck Reef Chert by Lowe and Byerly (1999), crops out along the 
Komati River (Fig. 1, locality 3). The exposed section starts with a fuchsite-chert-carbonate 
alteration zone that is overlain by carbonated, stratified lapillistone. Stratiform botryoidal and 
massive black chert veins less than 5 cm thick are common in both units. In the upper part of the 
section, stratiform black chert veins become more numerous, resulting in massive black chert that 
contains matrix-supported lapillistone fragments near the top (Fig. 4c). Lapillistone becomes 
progressively more silicified upsection. This is followed by a several metres thick chert horizon 
(K1c1) that consists of black and white banded chert. 
     Both vein and sedimentary black cherts contain carbonaceous material in the form of sand-sized 
grains. Botryoidal chert cement is common and is frequently interlayered with, or encloses, 
carbonaceous material of a different generation (Fig. 6d). 
Interpretation: Chert vein geometry at the top of the volcaniclastic sequence suggests a 
hydrothermal origin of the veins. The increase in veining upsection suggests some ponding of 
hydrothermal fluids below chert at times. Lapillistone becomes more silicified towards the top, 
suggesting that silicification and chert veining were contemporaneous. The same hydrothermal 
processes as discussed for H5 are envisaged to explain the field relationships. 
 
Buck Reef Chert (BRC) 
 
Description: In the study area on the west limb of the Onverwacht Anticline (Fig. 1, locality 4), the 
BRC has been subdivided into three facies (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 1999; Lowe and Byerly, 
2003; Tice and Lowe, 2004): (1) a basal evaporitic facies, containing volcaniclastic sedimentary 
rocks, chert and silicified evaporites; (2) a middle platform facies of black and white banded chert; 
and (3) an upper basin facies of banded ferruginous chert (Fig. 8). A variety of fossil-like 
microstructures have been reported from the BRC (Walsh, 1992). 
     The BRC overlies a dacitic igneous body, up to 2 km thick, termed member H6 of the 
Hooggenoeg Formation and interpreted as a large intrusive to extrusive lava dome and associated 
volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks (Lowe and Byerly, 1999; Lowe et al., 1999). The contact between 
H6 and the BRC is gradational. Massive, silicified dacite grades into conglomerate, pebbly 
sandstone, and massive to planar bedded, coarse-grained sandstone. The clasts consist entirely of 
dacitic volcanic rock, except for rare chert clasts. The sedimentary rocks are strongly silicified and 
detrital grains are variably replaced by chert. Parallel- and ripple-laminated chert is interbedded 
with, and overlies, silicified sandstone. The chert consists of interbedded translucent chert and 
black carbonaceous chert, and is frequently transected by elongate crystal pseudomorphs. Lowe and 
Fisher Worrell (1999) provided a detailed description of the facies preserved along the H6-BRC 
contact, which were interpreted to have formed in a coastal braid plain-sandflat setting. Replaced 
crystals were interpreted to represent pseudomorphs after nahcolite. 
 
 
12

--- Page 16 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Simplified section of the Buck Reef Chert. 
 
The silicified sandstone facies is overlain along a sharp contact by cherts that mostly lack sandstone 
interbeds. In the lowermost unit occur ≤ 0.5 m thick layers of silicified evaporites that are overlain 
by chert-clast breccias, with fragments of banded and evaporitic chert in a botryoidal chert and 
quartz matrix. The centres of some botryoidal chert and quartz fillings contain massive 
carbonaceous chert. Lowe and Fisher Worrell (1999) interpreted the chert breccias as evaporite 
dissolution cavities that were filled by botryoidal chert under mostly phreatic zone conditions. 
Carbonaceous chert in cavities was regarded as an injection of carbonaceous ooze, arresting 
complete precipitative filling. The evaporitic and botryoidal cherts are locally overlain by thin units 
of chert-clast conglomerate, black carbonaceous chert and green chert (Lowe and Fisher Worrell, 
 
13

--- Page 17 ---
 
 
1999), and are succeeded by banded cherts of the shallow to deeper water platform and basin facies 
(Tice and Lowe, 2004). 
     Thin, randomly oriented veins of translucent chert (0.5 to 1 cm, but rarely up to 5 cm wide), are 
common in the uppermost few hundred metres of the dacitic unit. Farther upsection, stratiform 
chert veins, 1–30 cm wide, are very common in the conglomerate and sandstone facies at the H6–
BRC contact. The veins consist of massive carbonaceous as well as botryoidal chert; some massive 
black chert veins grade laterally into botryoidal chert. The chert veins transect the host rock 
subparallel to bedding and partly brecciate it (Fig. 9a). Many horizons, up to 50 cm wide, are 
superficially similar to banded sedimentary chert, but, instead, consist of multiple stratiform veins, 
as indicated by the presence of angular fragments of chert and dacitic host rock (Fig. 9b). 
Furthermore, botryoidal chert veins, up to 50 cm wide, are present that are similar to the evaporite 
dissolution cavities at the base of the BRC. Most contacts between chert and host rock, including 
host-rock fragments, are sharp. In rare cases, however, does botryoidal chert replace the host rock. 
Furthermore, the matrix of some conglomerate beds is intruded and/or replaced by botryoidal chert. 
Chert veining is most intense immediately below the evaporitic and botryoidal chert unit. Rare 
chert veins also occur within this unit, whereas chert veins were not observed in the banded chert 
unit above, although identification is obscured because of the compositional similarity. 
     Several chert dykes that are oriented at a high angle to stratification (60-90°) transect the dacitic 
volcanic and sedimentary rocks of H6. The larger ones start at least 250 m below the BRC and 
appear to taper downward. They do not transect the silicified evaporite and associated breccia 
horizon at the base of the BRC. The dykes are ≤ 2 m in width. They show a crude internal layering 
parallel to the dyke walls (Fig. 9c), because they are made up of multiple generations of dyke fills 
as well as small cracks and veins, including botryoidal chert veins. Dykes, when fresh, consist of 
massive black chert; weathered surfaces reveal a fragmental, granular fabric caused by the presence 
of sand- to fine pebble-sized, angular clasts of white-weathering, probably host-rock material. 
Some "dykes in dykes" contain angular black chert fragments of the dyke host rock (Fig. 9c). 
Wherever cross-cutting relationships between stratiform chert veins and cross-cutting dykes can be 
observed, which is rarely the case, stratiform veins postdate dyking (Fig. 9d). 
     Carbonaceous matter in both banded cherts and chert dykes and veins consists of equant, sand-
sized carbonaceous grains that are moderately packed (Fig. 6e). Veins and dykes contain, in 
addition, sand-sized fragments of the host rock, including quartz, which are frequently completely 
replaced by chert. Botryoidal translucent cherts are devoid of carbonaceous matter, except for thin, 
carbonaceous chert laminae along vein margins. 
Interpretation: Of importance in the context of this study is the origin of black chert dykes and 
veins below, and at the base of, the BRC and any possible genetic link to the overlying, unusually 
thick sequence of banded cherts. The most plausible interpretation for the origin of stratiform chert 
veins is to regard them as fractures that were initiated by overpressured hydrothermal fluids and 
were filled by hydrothermal chert and sediment-derived material. Such an origin is indicated by the 
bedding-parallel orientation, brecciation of the host rock, the local filling of veins by botryoidal 
chert, and local host-rock replacement. Chert dykes are equally interpreted as hydrothermal features 
that recorded multiple injections of fluidized sedimentary material and hydrothermal fluids, partly 
brecciating the host rock and incorporating host-rock fragments into the dyke. Stratiform veins and 
cross-cutting chert dykes probably formed during a single event, although the veins formed slightly 
later. 
 
 
14

--- Page 18 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. (a) Silicified dacitic sandstone transected and brecciated by stratiform veins of black and 
botryoidal chert. (b) Banded chert consisting of multiple stratiform veins, as indicated by angular 
fragments of dacitic host rock (arrows). (c) Dyke consisting of (1) laminated black chert, (2) 
massive black chert with fragmental texture, and (3) weathered translucent chert with angular 
black chert fragments. Layering is parallel to dyke walls (not seen in photograph), which are 
perpendicular to stratification of the host rock. (d) Black chert dyke with fragments of massive 
dacitic host rock (1) cut by stratification-parallel black chert vein (2) showing lamination. 
 
Chert veins and dykes were not observed above the basal evaporitic facies of the BRC. This may 
indicate that hydrothermal activity was ongoing while this facies was being deposited and ceased 
before deposition of the overlying cherts, or that the evaporitic facies acted as a barrier for 
ascending and/or laterally migrating hydrothermal fluids. Cessation of hydrothermal activity can be 
attributed to reduced convection of seawater through the underlying rocks, when the basal chert 
beds prevented continuous recharge of the hydrothermal system. Banded cherts above the 
evaporitic facies show soft-sediment deformation (Tice and Lowe, 2004) and may have become 
lithified relatively late in the depositional history. They were thus unable to act as an impermeable 
barrier and did not respond to hydrothermal activity by brittle fracturing. The formation of chert-
clast breccias near the base of the BRC is best attributed to subsurface dissolution of evaporites by 
hydrothermal fluids rather than to evaporite dissolution in the phreatic zone (Lowe and Fisher 
Worrell, 1999). This interpretation is in line with the presence of botryoidal chert veins in the 
volcaniclastic facies that are similar to the "evaporite dissolution cavities", thus suggesting a 
relationship between evaporite dissolution and hydrothermal activity. 
 
 
 
 
 
15

--- Page 19 ---
 
 
 
Kromberg Formation - K3c 
 
Banded sedimentary cherts (K3c of Lowe and Byerly, 1999) overlying silicified volcanic rocks at 
the top of the Kromberg Formation (Fig. 2) are exposed in several localities of the BGB. The cherts 
and associated rocks form a locally very well exposed, laterally traceable horizon that has been 
investigated in the central study area and on Josefsdal farm. 
 
Central study area 
 
Description: In the central study area (Fig. 3, locality 5), the section commences with silicified 
pillowed basalt that contains cm-wide black chert dykes at the top (Fig. 10). Basalt is overlain by 
black and white banded chert; black and botryoidal chert veins are common. The chert is succeeded 
by pillow basalt that is variably replaced by black, massive chert and minor green chert. Black chert 
occurs in diffuse patchy areas or in stratification-parallel horizons. Black chert veins parallel, 
perpendicular, and random to stratification are abundant. A few metres thick and locally sheared 
banded chert overlies basalt and is followed by a sheared fuchsite-chert-carbonate rock. 
     The same section c. 1.5 km to the east (Fig. 3, locality 6) has a similar stratigraphy (Fig. 10). It 
starts with a succession of silicified pillow and massive basalt. Stratification-parallel as well as 
irregular veins and patches of chert occur in the uppermost 5 m. Opaque black chert occupies the 
centre of patches and veins, whereas translucent black chert forms a c. 3 mm-wide zone along the 
typically cuspate contact (Fig. 11a). Basalt is succeeded by sedimentary rocks, including laminated 
black chert and a massive conglomerate that consists of silicified basalt pebbles in a matrix of 
translucent chert. Pebbles show marginal chert replacement, and some chert veining opened up the 
original clast-supported fabric. The conglomerate is overlain by a succession of banded, laminated 
and massive, grey and black cherts that include stratiform veins. Cross-cutting black chert veins 
transect this unit and the underlying conglomerate and partly brecciate it (Fig. 11b). Rock 
fragments show evidence of marginal replacement by chert and are frequently surrounded by 
translucent chert rims. The chert sequence is overlain by poorly exposed komatiitic basalt, a 
sheared unit of banded black chert, and a prominent horizon of fuchsitic chert with numerous 
irregular chert veins and patches. 
Interpretation: Banded chert horizons represent silicified sediments that were laid down in between 
submarine volcanic activity. Deposition took place in a low-energy, sub-wave base setting with 
episodic, high-energy current events that resulted in the deposition of conglomerate beds. Many 
black chert veins and dykes formed after lithification of the banded cherts, resulting in fracturing 
and brecciation. The veins are considered to be of hydrothermal origin, as indicated by the 
geometry of the fracture pattern and the replacement of both volcanic and sedimentary host rocks. 
Chert veining associated with brecciation of bedded cherts is a result of fracturing of the 
impermeable barrier horizon allowing ponded, overpressured fluids to pass through. 
 
 
16

--- Page 20 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Simplified stratigraphic sections of chert horizon K3c at the top of the Kromberg 
Formation in the central study area (localities 5 and 6, Fig. 3) and on Josefsdal farm (locality 7, 
Fig. 1). 
 
 
 
Figure 11. (a) Amoeboidal patches of black chert in massive silicified basalt. Note the rim of 
translucent chert along basalt contacts (arrow). (b) Basalt pebble conglomerate transected and 
brecciated by black chert dykes. Some breccia fragments show evidence of marginal replacement 
by black chert (arrow). 
 
17

--- Page 21 ---
 
 
 
Josefsdal farm 
 
Description: Silicified volcanic rocks and banded cherts of the uppermost Kromberg Formation 
also crop out on Josefsdal farm (Fig. 1, locality 7) c. 12 km east-southeast of the previous study 
area. The section (Fig. 10) starts with laminated greenish-grey and black chert; some laminae 
contain accretionary lapilli. Stratiform black chert veins, some of which cross-cut bedding, are 
common at the top of the unit. Banded chert is overlain by a massive, greenish-grey chert, which 
represents silicified komatiitic basalt (Hofmann, unpubl. data). Millimetre-wide, discontinuous 
veins of translucent chert give rise to a lenticular fabric (Fig. 12a). Irregular veins (Fig. 12b), dykes 
and patches of black chert are common in the uppermost few metres of the silicified basalt and 
increase in abundance upsection (Fig. 10). Near the top, veins can no longer be discerned, and 
carbonaceous chert surrounds basalt fragments (Fig. 12c). The irregular shape of some fragments is 
related to marginal replacement by black chert. Black chert reveals a fragmental texture when 
weathered. This texture is related to silt- to fine pebble-sized, angular to rounded, probably mostly 
wall rock fragments. 
     Chert-veined basalt is succeeded by parallel-laminated, carbonaceous grey chert. The contact is 
very sharp; the underlying chert does not cut through it, except for a later generation of translucent 
chert veins. A bed of massive basalt pebble conglomerate occurs near the base of the sedimentary 
sequence (Fig. 10) and is infiltrated by botryoidal chert; chert clasts are absent. A second bed of 
massive conglomerate (Fig. 10) comprises clast-supported, very well-rounded pebbles and cobbles 
of grey chert. The sedimentary sequence is transected by a network of mostly bedding-parallel 
veins of black chert (Fig. 12d). Veins below the conglomerate frequently contain clasts derived 
from this bed. 
     Patches of grey chert and basalt-clast breccia occur in the uppermost part of the basalt sequence 
(Fig. 12a). A similar breccia exists as a dyke filling in the overlying sedimentary sequence. The 
breccia consists of angular chert clasts and rounded chert fragments, the latter derived from chert- 
pebble conglomerate. 
     In thin section, banded chert consists of a silicified clay-/siltstone with detrital quartz and 
disseminated, somewhat compacted, very fine sand-sized carbonaceous grains (Fig. 6f). Vein chert 
in basalt consists predominantly of tightly packed, fine sand-sized carbonaceous grains. 
 
 
18

--- Page 22 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 12. (a) Silicified basalt with translucent chert veins (arrows). Breccia of silicified basalt 
and chert fragments (left centre) probably represents a fissure filling. (b) Thin black chert veins 
transecting silicified basalt. (c) Black chert-veined and brecciated silicified basalt. Note local 
replacement of basalt by black chert (arrow). (d) Grey banded chert brecciated by thin black chert 
veins. Some chert veins contain rounded clasts derived from an overlying chert conglomerate bed. 
 
Interpretation: Stratiform chert veins at the chert-basalt contact suggest minor fluid flow along this 
contact after deposition of the lava flow. Hydrothermal activity was, however, much more 
pronounced along the contact with the overlying banded chert and resulted in much of the basalt 
being fractured and replaced. 
     The association of chert-pebble conglomerate and veins filled with rounded chert clasts has been 
described by Paris et al. (1985) and Stanistreet and Hughes (1984), who regarded such rocks as 
pseudoconglomerates that formed as discordant subsurface breccia bodies during exhalative 
processes. This and similar conglomerate bodies are more likely of sedimentary origin, because 
they form continuous beds and sometimes show grading. Rounding of the clasts took place in a 
"normal" sedimentary environment and not as a result of mechanical wear during hydrothermal 
transport. The presence of rounded chert fragments in discordant veins has been explained by Lowe 
(1999a) as a result of early brecciation of the cherty sediment and filling of the fractures by debris 
from overlying, still unlithified conglomerate beds. Lowe (1999a) noted that the absence of 
fragments of underlying rock in the breccias and of breccias intrusive into overlying units indicate 
that they were not formed by upward fluid flow. Brecciation has been attributed to exposure and 
desiccation or hydrofracturing during sediment dewatering, either as a result of compaction or 
boiling of interstitial waters during the deposition of overlying lavas (Lowe, 1999a). It is more 
likely that brecciation is a result of syndepositional hydrothermal activity that resulted in the 
formation of fractures that were then infilled by partly unconsolidated sediments. Fissures that are 
filled with brecciated host-rock material must have formed some time after deposition and 
 
19

--- Page 23 ---
 
 
lithification of the banded cherts, because they lack carbonaceous chert fillings, and probably 
represent hydrothermal breccia dykes. Similar breccia dykes have locally been observed at the 
Onverwacht-Fig Tree contact, where they contain fragments derived from stratigraphically 
underlying units (Hofmann, unpubl. data). 
 
Barite Valley Syncline (BVS) 
 
Description: Sedimentary horizons, stratiform veins and cross-cutting dykes of carbonaceous cherts 
are common in the southern part of the BVS (Fig. 1, locality 8), where the contact between the 
Onverwacht and Fig Tree Group is well exposed (Fig. 13). The stratigraphy and sedimentology of 
Fig Tree strata in the BVS have been described by Heinrichs and Reimer (1977) and Lowe and 
Nocita (1999). As pointed out by Lowe and Byerly (2003), the BVS is not a true syncline, as the 
two limbs are separated by faulting and show a different stratigraphy. The strata of the two limbs 
are dipping steeply to the east-southeast (Fig. 13). Open to tight folding is common in the central 
part of the structure, and fold axes have a shallow to moderate plunge to the north-northeast. 
 
 
 
Figure 13. Geological map of the southern part of the Barite Valley Syncline and stratigraphic 
section of the western limb (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977; Lowe and Byerly, 2003; own mapping). A 
and B are localities discussed in the text. 
 
     On the west limb, the lowermost stratigraphic unit consists of intensely altered ultramafics, now 
represented by a fuchsite-chert-carbonate rock (Fig. 13). A sequence of banded black, grey and 
white chert overlies the volcanic rocks. When weathered, this unit has the appearance of silicified 
shale and siltstone. White-weathering translucent chert bands mostly represent stratiform veins. 
Numerous chert dykes cut through the sedimentary and underlying volcanic rock units. Banded 
chert is overlain, possibly along an erosional unconformity (Lowe and Byerly, 2003), by a 
lithologically complex unit of massive greenish-grey chert with mm-wide translucent chert veins, 
fine chert-pebble conglomerate and grit containing meteorite impact spherules (Lowe et al., 2003), 
and bedded barite intercalated with silicified sandstones. Chert dykes do not penetrate this unit. 
This is overlain by interstratified silicified sandstone, fine chert-pebble conglomerate, barite, and 
jaspilite, followed by parallel-laminated tuffaceous sandstone, siltstone and shale. The relationships 
discussed below refer to the west limb of the BVS. 
 
20

--- Page 24 ---
 
 
     Chert dykes are up to 3 m wide, relatively tabular and extend for at least 250 m downsection. 
They dip steeply to the south-southwest and terminate along a greenish-grey chert horizon that is 
situated immediately below the impact spherule and barite beds. This chert horizon contains 
abundant diffuse patches of black translucent chert. 
     Metre-scale chert dykes are frequently composite dyke-in-dyke structures (Fig. 14a) and consist 
of discrete generations of dyke fillings, thus showing a crude layering subparallel to the dyke walls. 
They are filled with massive carbonaceous chert, botryoidal chert and a common carbonaceous 
chert variety that, when weathered, reveals a fragmental texture. This texture is related to the 
presence of mostly granule- to pebble-sized (but from silt to cobble-sized), angular- to well- 
rounded, silicified clasts that float in the chert matrix. The fragments are compositionally similar to 
the immediate dyke host rock. Some fragments show evidence of in situ brecciation by thin chert 
veining, as indicated by the preservation of a jigsaw fit (Fig. 14b). Black chert fragments also occur 
and they most likely represent fragments of an earlier chert dyke generation. Although most clasts 
are angular, some are subangular to well rounded, so that some dyke fills resemble matrix-
supported conglomerates. Mutual cross-cutting relationships between different generations of 
carbonaceous and botryoidal translucent cherts are common. Dyke walls are sometimes irregular, 
suggesting marginal chert replacement. Patches of translucent chert occur in some carbonaceous 
chert dykes in between the fragments, suggesting incomplete filling of dykes at times. 
     Bedding-parallel chert veins that locally branch off the dykes (Fig. 14c) are common in silicified 
sediments. These veins are up to 0.5 m wide and transect and brecciate the host rock subparallel to 
bedding. Stepping of chert dykes and veins both vertically and laterally is common (Fig. 15). At 
one locality a black chert dyke occurs that cuts through bedding at a low angle; black chert is finely 
laminated parallel to the dyke wall. 
     Several dykes, irrespective of the nature of the immediate wall rock, contain equant to tabular, 
angular to rounded pebbles of black, slightly translucent chert in a matrix of carbonaceous chert. 
One dyke that cuts across banded chert contains angular fragments of the host rock that are 
surrounded by a 5 mm-wide rim of botryoidal chert, resulting in a more rounded shape of the 
fragments (Fig. 14d). The same dyke, 1.5 m downsection, contains spherical pebbles of translucent 
chert that are rimmed by botryoidal chert, with the same shape and size as the chert-rimmed angular 
clasts (Fig. 14e). 
     At location A (Fig. 13), a swarm of densely spaced chert dykes transects the base of the 
sedimentary sequence, which contains abundant jaspilite beds in otherwise black and white banded 
chert in a zone ≥ 4 m thick. The dykes contain jaspilite fragments where they cut the jaspilite-
bearing horizon, but jaspilite fragments also occur stratigraphically below the horizon. 
Furthermore, jaspilitic cherts are cross-cut by small veins of black chert both parallel and 
perpendicular to bedding; the banded cherts are frequently replaced along the margin of these veins 
(Fig. 14f). Approximately 10 m below the impact spherule layer at locality B (Fig. 13) occur 
spherules in several black chert dykes in a bedding-parallel, poorly exposed zone with a minimum 
lateral extent of 10 m and a thickness of c. 3 m. The spherules either float in black chert or form 
rock fragments composed entirely of spherules. 
 
 
21

--- Page 25 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 14. (a) Chert dyke consisting of botryoidal chert at the margin and a later fill of 
carbonaceous chert in the centre. (b) Chert dyke containing fragments of silicified sedimentary host 
rock in a black chert matrix. Some fragments have been fractured by thin chert veins after being 
incorporated into the dyke (arrows). (c) Dyke of massive black chert that transects silicified 
sedimentary rocks and branches into a stratiform vein upsection. Stratigraphic way-up is to the top. 
Picture taken on east limb of the Barite Valley Syncline. (d) Angular fragments of silicified 
sedimentary rock that are rimmed by translucent, laminated and somewhat botryoidal chert, 
resulting in a more rounded shape of the fragments. (e) Angular to rounded pebbles of black 
translucent chert in a fragmental black chert matrix. Pebbles are rimmed by megaquartz. (f) 
Banded jaspilitic chert intruded and partly replaced (arrows) by black chert. 
 
 
22

--- Page 26 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 15. Field relationships between silicified sedimentary rocks (bedding is indicated) and 
intrusive veins and dykes of massive carbonaceous chert. Scale bars are 10 cm long. 
 
     Bedded carbonaceous cherts represent silicified siltstones and claystones that contain remnants 
of silt-sized quartz grains. Carbonaceous matter occurs in the form of slightly compacted, 
ellipsoidal grains in the very fine sand-size range. Chert dykes contain abundant silt to coarse sand-
sized, equant carbonaceous grains admixed with some angular, chert-replaced clasts, representing 
either detrital grains or wall-rock fragments. 
Interpretation: Chert dykes and veins are interpreted to have been initiated by hydrothermal 
processes, on the basis of similar arguments presented earlier, such as fracturing of the wall rocks, 
geometry of the chert-filled fractures, multiple dyke fillings and in situ brecciation of earlier 
generations of dyke fillings, marginal replacement of wall rock and wall-rock fragments, and the 
presence of botryoidal chert. Furthermore, the presence of vertical dykes that branch into bedding-
parallel veins, and the presence of dykes with a parallel laminar fabric that are at an angle to 
bedding indicate that the dyke system cannot be regarded as simple open fissures that were infilled 
with sedimentary material from above. 
     Rounding of wall-rock fragments is a common observation in the chert dykes. It has been shown 
that rounding can be a result of marginal replacement of angular fragments and that many chert 
pebbles represent completely replaced wall-rock fragments. Rounding of fragments in 
hydrothermal breccias is commonly observed and may be a result of mechanical abrasion during 
movement in the fluid, or, as it is the case here, be a result of corrosive wear, i.e., the marginal 
dissolution of fragments (Jebrak, 1997). It cannot always be ascertained if rock fragments in chert 
dykes were derived from the immediate wall rock, including an earlier chert generation of the dyke 
fillings, or from rocks stratigraphically above or below the position they occur. The presence of 
jaspilite fragments and impact spherules in dykes below beds that contain such material suggests 
some downward movement (see also Lowe and Byerly, 1986). In most cases, however, the 
fragments are derived from the immediate wall rocks and appear not to have travelled far up- or 
downsection. 
     Chert dykes do not penetrate a laterally persistent horizon of greenish-grey chert and extend into 
the overlying conglomerate and barite beds. This contact has been regarded as possibly 
unconformable, and it may thus be plausible that the termination of the chert dykes, if regarded to 
be of syndepositional origin, is a result of erosion down to that contact. However, a similar 
relationship exists on the east limb, where chert dykes stop along a chert horizon along which there 
is no evidence for an erosional contact. Furthermore, chert dykes are not terminated sharply, but 
rather lose their geometry to form diffuse patches of black chert in green chert. These relationships 
suggest that the chert dykes terminated at a stratigraphic level of early silicified sediments that were 
impermeable for the hydrothermal fluids. The chert dykes are not vertical, but dip steeply to the 
north-northeast, which is probably related to the north-northeast plunge of the fold structure, 
suggesting that they formed in a vertical orientation. 
     The field relationships in the BVS do not clearly permit identification of the exact timing of the 
hydrothermal activity. However, it has to be kept in mind that the sedimentary sequence above the 
chert dykes contains several beds of barite. The beds are interpreted to consist of detrital barite that 
 
23

--- Page 27 ---
 
 
was eroded from hydrothermal barite deposits elsewhere (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977). 
Hydrothermal barite is commonly associated with chert dykes in the Pilbara Craton (Nijman et al., 
1999), possibly suggesting a genetic link between chert dykes and reworked barite, i.e., 
syndepositional hydrothermal activity. 
 
Msauli Chert 
 
The Onverwacht-Fig Tree contact is locally occupied by a chert unit that consists of silicified beds 
of accretionary lapilli, termed the Msauli Chert. Two sections have been studied in detail, the type 
section in the Msauli gorge and a section situated in the central study area. 
     In the Msauli gorge (Fig. 1, locality 9), the section starts with a lenticular-banded, fuchsite-
chert-carbonate rock (Fig. 16a) that represents altered ultramafic rocks of the Mendon Formation. 
The volcanic rocks are sharply overlain by the Msauli Chert, which, in the lower part, consists of 
thinly interbedded green and black carbonaceous chert. This unit is overlain by accretionary lapilli-
bearing, normally graded and rarely cross-stratified beds intercalated with laminated green chert 
(Heinrichs, 1984; Lowe, 1999b). The Msauli Chert and underlying volcanic rocks are transected by 
massive carbonaceous and botryoidal translucent chert veins and dykes mostly parallel and 
perpendicular to bedding (Fig. 16a). In most cases, stratiform veins consist of botryoidal chert and 
formed later than the carbonaceous chert dykes. Some dykes are represented by a network of mm- 
to cm-scale veins that surround angular host-rock fragments, with large fragments being unrotated 
and almost in situ. Other dykes show an irregular lamination parallel to the dyke walls (Fig. 16b). 
They may contain elongate fragments of wall rock that are aligned parallel to the lamination. The 
Msauli Chert is overlain by c. 5 m of rather massive, but poorly exposed, carbonaceous chert, 
followed by variably silicified graphitic shale. No chert dykes were observed that cut the shale unit. 
Microfossil-like features showing apparent cell division have been reported from carbonaceous 
rocks of the Msauli Chert (Knoll and Barghoorn, 1977). 
     An additional outcrop of Msauli Chert has been investigated c. 5 km east of the previous section 
in the central study area (Fig. 3, locality 10). The stratigraphy of the Msauli Chert and associated 
rocks is very similar, although the whole unit is locally tectonically duplicated due to low-angle 
faulting (not shown on map). The exposed section starts with a schistose fuchsite-chert-carbonate 
rock containing abundant, mostly foliation-parallel veins of botryoidal chert (1-30 cm wide). 
Layers (5-30 cm thick) with undeformed spinifex textures indicate a komatiite parentage for the 
rocks. The altered ultramafics are overlain by c. 20 m of interbedded lapillistone and green chert 
(Msauli Chert). The Msauli Chert is transected and brecciated by carbonaceous and botryoidal chert 
veins that are mostly subparallel to bedding. Some chert veins are exactly parallel to bedding and 
are filled with chert that may show a parallel laminar fabric (Fig. 16c). The uppermost 1-2 m of the 
Msauli Chert is strongly brecciated by a network of bedding-parallel veins of botryoidal chert. The 
chert penetrates lapillistone along the margin and either displaces individual lapilli outwards or 
replaces the finer-grained matrix material so that originally densely packed lapilli become matrix-
supported in black chert (Fig. 16d). The Msauli Chert is overlain by c. 10 m of banded black and 
white chert. Some chert layers are well banded, whereas other layers are faintly laminated to 
massive and may represent stratiform veins. Bedding-parallel botryoidal chert veins are present. In 
addition, there are cross-cutting black chert dykes, although they are not as common and/or easy to 
detect as in the underlying Msauli Chert. A chert-pebble conglomerate is intercalated with massive 
black chert near the top of the section. This bed is invaded by translucent chert, which results in the 
clast-supported fabric being opened up. The conglomerate becomes sheared out laterally, although 
there is no clear shear fabric in either the conglomerate or the black chert. However, black chert 
contains silicified, poorly visible clasts that are probably derived from conglomerate, indicating that 
some of the material may have been replaced by chert. The chert unit is overlain by shales of the 
Fig Tree Group, although the contact is not exposed at this locality. 
 
 
24

--- Page 28 ---
 
 
 
 
Figure 16. (a) Lenticular-banded, altered ultramafic rock transected by carbonaceous and 
botryoidal chert dykes and veins. (b) The Msauli Chert is cut by carbonaceous chert dykes (1) at an 
angle to bedding. Some dykes show a crude stratification parallel to the dyke walls (arrow). A later 
vein of black botryoidal chert (2) transects the rock subparallel to bedding. (c) Black chert vein 
intrusive into parallel-stratified Msauli Chert. The chert vein shows a fine lamination parallel to 
the vein walls (arrow). (d) Lapillistone transected by botryoidal chert veins. Note that chert 
infiltrates the lapillistone along the vein margin and displaces individual lapilli outwards (arrows). 
 
Interpretation: Both carbonaceous and botryoidal cherts are interpreted as hydrothermal fracture 
fillings that formed during the same hydrothermal event, although botryoidal chert frequently, but 
not always, formed later. The presence of wall-rock fragments aligned parallel to a commonly 
developed layering in the dykes indicate that the dykes and their stratification is a result of multiple 
chert injections. The fracture pattern and brecciation of the uppermost part of the Msauli Chert in 
the central study area suggests a hydraulic fracturing mechanism, with the hydrothermal fluids 
again concentrated below a lithological contact. Translucent chert invaded lapillistone and 
conglomerate beds and there is evidence that this invasion may have led locally to "delithification", 
as in the case of accretionary lapilli becoming entrained in the chert. The parallel laminar fabric of 
some bedding-parallel chert veins is probably a compaction or foliation feature, which could easily 
be confused with a sedimentary structure. There is evidence for shearing along massive black chert 
units, as indicated by deformation of one conglomerate horizon, suggesting that massive black chert 
horizons may host cryptic bedding-parallel shear zones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25

--- Page 29 ---
 
 
Central Study Area, Fig Tree-Onverwacht Contact 
 
Description: The contact between the Fig Tree Group and tectonically overlying Onverwacht 
Group  is represented by a shear zone (Granville Grove Fault of Lowe and Byerly, 1999), along 
which the sedimentary and volcanic rocks have been silicified to black chert. The uppermost 
exposed sedimentary rocks of the Fig Tree Group, which are characterized by a homogeneous 
sequence of parallel-laminated and rarely cross-bedded, fine-grained sandstone, are silicified to 
finely banded, grey-weathering, relatively opaque black chert (Fig. 17a). Thin veins of massive 
black chert, up to 5 cm wide, cross-cut the lamination locally. Silicification took place in an at least 
30 m-wide alteration zone beneath the contact with tectonically overlying pillow basalts of the 
Mendon Formation. On average, silicification intensifies towards the contact, although stratiform 
horizons of only poorly silicified sedimentary rocks may occur within the alteration zone. 
 
 
 
Figure 17. (a) Parallel- and cross-laminated carbonaceous chert c.15 m below the shear zone. 
Stratigraphic way-up is to the right. (b) Silicified pillow basalt consisting predominantly of massive 
black chert. 
 
Near the contact the silicified sedimentary rocks become complexly folded, ferruginized and 
intercalated with sheared shaley gossans that contain some scattered chert lenses. The contact itself 
is a 1 m-wide, highly strained gossan that shows an anastomosing foliation and a mylonitic fabric. 
The shear zone is overlain by a c. 30 m-thick zone of altered volcanic rocks, mostly pillow basalts, 
which are completely replaced by chert locally (Fig. 17b). Silicified volcanic rocks consist of black 
chert with fragments and diffuse patches of green chert. Silicification of the volcanic rocks is not 
continuous along the contact, and pillow basalt may be carbonated or Fe-oxide impregnated at other 
localities. 
     In thin section, silicified sandstone consists predominantly of chert with many silt- to fine sand-
sized quartz grains that withstood alteration to chert. Carbonaceous matter is absent, whereas 
disseminated idiomorphic sulphide grains do occur. Silicified basalt consists almost totally of chert 
that is present as angular fragments and matrix. Disseminated clots of carbonaceous matter are rare. 
Interpretation: The shear zone is a result of thrusting of Onverwacht Group rocks onto Fig Tree 
strata. That Fig Tree rocks were silicified adjacent to the shear zone is indicated by: (1) 
discontinuous or variably intense silicification of rocks adjacent to the shear zone vertically; (2) 
similar lithological attributes of the silicified sedimentary rocks compared to the underlying rocks 
(e.g., homogeneous coloration and lamination style); and (3) clear younging indicators in silicified 
rocks immediately below the shear zone. There is no evidence for a shear zone below the silicified 
rocks and that these cherts are part of an older chert sequence that was brought into place by 
folding (e.g., Lowe et al., 1999). Silicification of the overlying volcanic rocks is also related to the 
contact, because it intensifies downsection towards the contact. The alteration of sedimentary and 
 
26

--- Page 30 ---
 
 
volcanic rocks to chert along an unequivocal shear zone indicates that the alteration is a result of 
hydrothermal fluids that were channelled along the shear zone. Ferruginization of chert, and the 
shearing and brecciation in the gossaneous zone must have taken place after silicification. The 
gossan is a result of sulphide weathering, and the sulphides were probably introduced during 
reactivation of the shear zone during a later deformation event. 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS 
 
Carbonaceous cherts in the BGB span a time interval of more than 200 Ma. Despite this, they share 
very similar lithological attributes and relationships to surrounding rocks, suggesting that they 
formed by a common process. Sedimentary chert horizons are very continuous laterally. They 
always overlie volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks that are silicified in the uppermost few tens of 
metres. Geochemical evidence has been presented that this silicification is a result of low-
temperature (≤ ~150 °C) hydrothermal processes. Seawater, which was close to saturation with 
respect to amorphous silica (Siever, 1992), is thought to have circulated through the seafloor 
volcanics. The heat for convection was probably provided by a high regional heat flow during the 
early and mid-Archaean (Hofmann, 2005b). Precipitation of silica took place as a result of a 
decrease in silica solubility, when diffusely upflowing hydrothermal fluids came into contact with 
seawater near the seafloor. This resulted in the silicification of volcanic rocks close to the seafloor 
and the silicification of overlying biogeneous and tuffaceous sediments near the sediment-water 
interface (Hofmann, 2005b). Both rock types were affected by very similar chemical alteration 
processes, which resulted in the formation of very similar textural features. For example, 
translucent chert veins are a characteristic feature of altered ultramafic rocks, such as those 
underlying the Msauli Chert (Fig. 16a). The same veinlets are common in silicified rocks of 
ultramafic composition throughout the volcano-sedimentary sequence, including the massive green 
cherts in H3c that represent komatiitic tuffs. It also needs to be emphasized that alteration and 
silicification involved a variety of rocks types, including ultramafic volcaniclastic deposits below 
chert horizon K1c1, and dacite-derived conglomerates and sandstones below the Buck Reef Chert. 
The protolith did, therefore, not play a role for alteration zones to develop. Important was the 
presence of sedimentary chert beds overlying these zones. 
      Chert dykes play an important role in the understanding of the hydrothermal processes 
involved, because they provide evidence that these processes took place just below the seafloor and 
not during much later, post-burial hydrothermal activity. Carbonaceous matter in the chert dykes is 
petrographically identical to the kerogen in the sedimentary horizons. The presence of certain clasts 
admixed with the kerogen in the dykes, which were derived from overlying beds (such as impact 
spherules, Lowe and Byerly, 1986), suggests that the bulk of the carbonaceous matter was derived 
from sedimentary material that accumulated on the seafloor. The dykes do, therefore, not represent 
hydrothermal feeder channels for the sedimentary cherts, in a way analogous to modern seafloor 
hot spring deposits. But, neither can they be regarded as simple fissures that were filled by 
carbonaceous sedimentary material. Many veins contain angular host-rock fragments and show 
hydraulic fracture patterns, suggesting that they were initiated by the forceful intrusion of over-
pressured hydrothermal fluids. Observations, such as branching of dykes into stratiform veins, wall- 
rock replacement, multiple-dyke fillings, and in situ brecciation of earlier generations of dyke 
fillings, supports this view. 
     But how did the hydrothermal systems become over-pressured when they formed close to the 
seafloor? This can be explained by early silicification of seafloor sediments by hydrothermal 
activity. Syndepositional silicification of sedimentary deposits resulted in the formation of 
impermeable pathways for ascending hydrothermal fluids. Buildup of fluid pressure beneath the 
cap rocks resulted in ponding of hydrothermal fluids and breaching and brecciation of the cap rocks 
at times. This resulted in the formation of fractures in the alteration zones that were then infilled by 
not yet silicified carbonaceous sedimentary material overlying the silica caps, giving rise to the 
formation of carbonaceous chert dykes and veins. Ponding of hydrothermal fluids is indicated by 
 
27

--- Page 31 ---
 
 
the dramatic increase of chert veins immediately below sedimentary chert units (e.g., below the 
Buck Reef Chert). Breaching of the cap rocks, on the other hand, is evidenced by the occurrence of 
veins and dykes within, and the local brecciation of, the sedimentary chert horizons (e.g., at the top 
of the Kromberg Formation). The model presented here for the origin of the chert dykes is broadly 
similar to the one presented by Lowe and Byerly (1986). However, it emphasizes the importance of 
subseafloor hydrothermal processes, not only for the origin of the chert dykes, but also for the 
silicification of the overlying chert beds. Lowe (1999a), Knauth and Lowe (2003) and Tice and 
Lowe (2004) argued for a diagenetic origin of the early silicification, unrelated to hydrothermal 
activity. 
     Not all chert veins consist of carbonaceous sediment that was entrained into hydraulic fractures. 
Many veins consist of pure chert instead, and many of these show botryoidal features and cavity-
filling megaquartz, suggesting that the chert precipitated out of hydrothermal fluids. Such veins are 
typically stratiform and are probably related to fluid overpressure. Fluid pressure must have 
exceeded the pressure from the overlying sediment and water column at times, which resulted in 
the opening of fractures oriented parallel to the seafloor. These fractures were then filled by 
hydrothermal chert and quartz. When breaching of the cap rocks took place, sedimentary material 
was able to become entrained in the stratiform veins locally. Because many stratiform botryoidal 
chert veins postdate carbonaceous chert dykes, this type of process took place relatively late in the 
evolution of the hydrothermal systems, possibly because of the increase in the thickness of the 
capping cherts with time. Many modern subaerial hydrothermal deposits are characterized by 
extensive breccia deposits which form during hydrothermal eruptions in active geothermal fields 
(Browne and Lawless, 2001). The complete absence of such deposits in the BGB may suggest that 
water depths during deposition of many sedimentary cherts were not as shallow as assumed by 
many authors (Lanier and Lowe, 1982; Lowe, 1999a). 
     Besides the filling of hydrothermal veins, a few carbonaceous chert veins formed differently. 
Some carbonaceous chert beds did not become lithified before being buried by overlying strata. 
Rapid burial or earthquake shock may have resulted in sediment fluidization and mobilization of 
carbon-bearing gelatinous silica to form cross-cutting veins, as observed in the upper part of H3c. 
Carbonaceous cherts of the Buck Reef Chert, that show soft-sediment deformation features, may 
have been affected by similar processes. 
     Not all of the silicification was associated with hydrothermal processes on and below the 
seafloor. Instead, a variety of rocks situated adjacent to the Granville Grove Fault became silicified 
too. This type of silicification is best ascribed to hydrothermal fluids that were channelled along the 
shear zone. Disturbing is that such rocks are compositionally very similar to the other chert types. 
This means that care needs to be taken when using chert horizons as stratigraphic marker horizons, 
because they may have formed in the vicinity of shear zones. 
     Carbonaceous matter in the dykes was probably derived from the overlying sedimentary 
horizons. This is supported by very similar petrographic characteristics as well as geochemical and 
isotopic data (Hofmann, unpubl. data). The origin of the kerogen is not known and a matter of 
much debate. Shales and turbiditic greywackes of the Fig Tree Group in the northern part of the 
belt contain carbonaceous matter in similar proportions to the cherts (Reimer, 1975); carbon isotope 
data are also similar and are indicative of biological fractionation processes (Hayes et al., 1983; 
Walsh and Lowe, 1999; Hofmann, unpubl. data). Because mat-like carbon accumulations are rare, 
most of the carbonaceous matter probably settled out of the water column and may have originally 
formed in the shallow part of the Archaean ocean, possibly by modern pelagic organisms. Although 
the possibility that the carbon was derived from abiologically produced organics in the water 
column cannot be discounted, an organic origin appears far more plausible. Beside the ubiquitous 
kerogen clots and the more rare mat-like accumulations, secondary carbonaceous matter was 
observed in the pore space of carbonaceous chert at one locality (Fig. 6d). The origin of this 
material is not clear and it may represent the remains of degraded hydrocarbons. 
     This study highlights the importance of detailed field work prior to sampling of carbonaceous 
cherts for micropalaeontological or chemical analyses. Chert dykes are generally easy to distinguish 
 
28

--- Page 32 ---
 
 
from bedded sedimentary cherts, because of their cross-cutting geometry. Much more difficult to 
distinguish are stratiform veins in bedded chert host rocks, especially in areas of poor exposure. 
This is particularly difficult when they show layering, which can be very similar to sedimentary 
bedding. Furthermore, replacement of sedimentary rocks by chert is common in the vicinity of 
chert dykes. In addition, many translucent chert bands are secondary, and when present in stratified 
cherts, are very difficult to distinguish from primary chert precipitates. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Ho 2507/1–1/2), Stichting 
Schürmannfonds (2003–2004/13), and the University of the Witwatersrand Research Committee. I 
am grateful to Johan Eksteen, Mpumalanga Parks Board, and Colin Wille, Taurus Estate, for access 
and hospitality. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
Anhaeusser, C.R., 1976. The geology of the Sheba Hills area of the Barberton Mountain Land, 
South Africa, with particular reference to the Eureka syncline. Trans. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 79, 
253-280. 
Armstrong, R.A., Compston, W., De Wit, M.J., Williams, I.S., 1990. The stratigraphy of the 3.5–
3.2 Ga Barberton greenstone belt revisited: a single zircon ion microprobe study. Earth 
Planet. Sci. Lett., 101, 90–106. 
Awramik, S.M., Schopf, J.W., Walter, M.R., 1983. Filamentous fossil bacteria from the Archean of 
Western Australia. Precambrian Res., 20, 357–374. 
Brasier, M.D., Green, O.R., Jephcoat, A. P., Kleppe, A.K., Van Kranendonk, M.J., Lindsay, J.F., 
Steele, A., Grassineau, N.V., 2002. Questioning the evidence for Earth´s oldest fossils. 
Nature, 416, 76–81. 
Browne, P.R.L., Lawless, J.V., 2001. Characteristics of hydrothermal eruptions, with examples 
from New Zealand and elsewhere. Earth Sci. Rev., 52, 299–331. 
Byerly, G. R., Lowe, D. R., Wooden, J. L., Xie, X., 2002. An Archean impact layer from the 
Pilbara and Kaapvaal cratons. Science, 297, 1325–1327. 
Byerly, G.R., Kröner, A., Lowe, D.R., Todt, W., Walsh, M.M., 1996. Prolonged magmatism and 
time constraints for sediment deposition in the early Archean Barberton greenstone belt: 
evidence from the Upper Onverwacht and Fig Tree groups. Precambrian Res., 78, 125–138. 
Compston, W., Kröner, A., 1988. Multiple zircon growth within early Archaean tonalitic gneiss 
from the Ancient Gneiss Complex, Swaziland. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 87, 13–28. 
Condie K. C., Macke J. E., Reimer T. O., 1970 Petrology and geochemistry of early Precambrian 
greywackes from the Fig Tree Group, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., 81, 2759–2776. 
De Wit, M.J., 1982. Gliding and overthrust nappe tectonics in the Barberton greenstone belt. J. 
Struct. Geol., 4, 117–136. 
De Wit, M.J., Hart, R.J., Martin, A., Abbott, P., 1982. Archaean abiogenic and probable biogenic 
structures associated with mineralized hydrothermal vent systems and regional 
metasomatism, with implications for greenstone belt studies. Econ. Geol., 77, 1783–1802. 
Duchac, K.C., Hanor, J.S., 1987. Origin and timing of metasomatic silicification of an early 
Archean komatiite sequence, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 
37, 125–146. 
Eriksson, K.A., 1980. Hydrodynamic and paleogeographic interpretation of turbidite deposits from 
the Archean Fig Tree Group of the Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. 
Amer., 91, 21–26. 
Garcia-Ruiz, J.M., Hyde, S.T., Carnerup, A.M., Christy, A.G., Van Kranendonk, M.J., Welham, 
N.J., 2003. Self-assembled silica-carbonate structures and detection of ancient microfossils. 
Science, 302, 1194–1197. 
 
29

--- Page 33 ---
 
 
Hanor, J.S., Duchac, K.C., 1990. Isovolumetric silicification of early Archean komatiites: 
geochemical mass balances and constraints on origin. J. Geol., 98, 863–877. 
Hayes, J.M., Kaplan I.R., Wedeking, K.W., 1983. Precambrian organic chemistry, preservation of 
the record. In: Schopf, J.W. (Ed.), Earth’s Earliest Biosphere – its Origin and Evolution. 
Princeton University Press, New Jersey, pp. 93–134. 
Heinrichs, T., 1980. Lithostratigraphische Untersuchungen in der Fig Tree Gruppe des Barberton 
Greenstone Belt zwischen Umsoli und Lomati (Südafrika). Göttinger Arbeiten zur Geologie 
und Paläontologie, 22, 118 pp. 
Heinrichs, T., 1984. The Umsoli chert, turbidite testament for a major phreatoplinian event at the 
Onverwacht/Fig Tree transition (Swaziland Supergroup, Archaean, South Africa). 
Precambrian Res., 24, 237–283. 
Heinrichs, T.K., Reimer, T.O., 1977. A sedimentary barite deposit from the Archean Fig Tree 
Group of the Barberton Mountain Land (South Africa). Econ. Geol.,72, 1426–1441. 
Hofmann, A., 2005a. The geochemistry of shales and cherts from the Fig Tree Group, Barberton 
greenstone belt: implications for tectonic, hydrothermal and surface processes during mid-
Archaean times. Precambrian Res. (submitted). 
Hofmann, A., 2005b. Stratiform alteration zones in the Barberton greenstone belt: a window into 
subseafloor processes 3.5–3.3 Ga ago. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett. (submitted). 
Horita, J., Berndt, M.E., 1999. Abiogenic methane formation and isotopic fractionation under 
hydrothermal conditions. Science, 285, 1055–1057. 
Jebrak, M., 1997. Hydrothermal breccias in vein-type ore deposits: A review of mechanisms, 
morphology and size distribution. Ore Geol. Rev., 12, 111–134. 
Kamo, S.L., Davis, D.W., 1994. Reassessment of Archean crustal development in the Barberton 
Mountain Land, South Africa, based on U-Pb dating. Tectonics, 13, 167–192. 
Knauth, L.P., Lowe, D.R., 1978. Oxygen isotope geochemistry of cherts from the Onverwacht 
Group (3.4 billion years), Transvaal, South Africa with implications for secular variations in 
the isotopic compositions of cherts. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 41, 209–222. 
Knauth, L.P., Lowe, D.R., 2003. High Archean climatic temperatures inferred from oxygen isotope 
geochemistry of cherts in the 3.5 Ga Swaziland Supergroup, South Africa. Bull. Geol. Soc. 
Amer., 115, 566–580. 
Knoll, A.H., Barghoorn, E.S., 1977. Archean microfossils showing cell division from the 
Swaziland System of South Africa. Science, 198, 396–398. 
Kohler, E. A. and Anhaeusser, C. R. (2002). Geology  and  geodynamic  setting  of Archaean silicic 
 
metavolcaniclastic rocks of the Bien Venue Formation, Fig Tree Group, northeast Barberton 
 
greenstone belt, South Africa.  Precambrian  Res., 116, 199-235.                                         
Kröner, A., Byerly, G.R., Lowe, D.R., 1991. Chronology of early Archaean granite-greenstone 
evolution in the Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa, based on precise dating by single 
zircon evaporation. Earth Planet. Sci. Lett., 103, 41–54. 
Lanier, W.P., Lowe, D.R., 1982. Sedimentology of the Middle Marker (3.4 Ga), Onverwacht 
Group, Transvaal, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 18, 237–260. 
Laznicka, P., 1988. Breccias and coarse fragmentites: petrology, environments, associations, ores. 
Developments in Econ. Geol. 25, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 832 pp. 
Lowe, D.R., 1999a. Petrology and sedimentology of cherts and related silicified sedimentary rocks 
in the Swaziland Supergroup. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of 
the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 83–114. 
Lowe, D. R., 1999b. Shallow-water sedimentation of accretionary lapilli-bearing strata of the 
Msauli Chert: Evidence of explosive hydro-magmatic komatiitic volcanism. In: Lowe, D.R., 
Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. 
Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 213–232. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 1986. Archean flow-top alteration zones formed initially in a low-
temperature sulphate-rich environment. Nature, 324, 245–248. 
 
30

--- Page 34 ---
 
 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 1999. Stratigraphy of the west-central part of the Barberton Greenstone 
Belt, South Africa. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the 
Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 1–36. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., 2003. Field Guide to the Geology of the 3.5–3.2 Ga Barberton 
Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Guidebook prepared for Field Conference, Archean Surface 
Processes, June 23–July 2, 2003, 184 pp. 
Lowe, D.R., Fisher Worrel, G., 1999. Sedimentology, mineralogy, and implications of silicified 
evaporites in the Kromberg Formation, Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. In: Lowe, 
D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South 
Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 167–188. 
Lowe, D.R., Knauth, L.P., 1977. Sedimentology of the Onverwacht Group (3.4 billion years), 
Transvaal, South Africa, and its bearing on the characteristics and evolution of the early 
Earth. J. Geol., 85, 699–723. 
Lowe, D. R., Nocita, B.W., 1999. Foreland basin sedimentation in the Mapepe Formation, 
southern-facies Fig Tree Group. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of 
the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 233–258. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Heubeck, C., 1999. Structural divisions and development of the west-
central part of the Barberton greenstone belt. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic 
Evolution of the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 
329, 37–82.  
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Ransom, B.L., Nocita, B.W., 1985. Stratigraphic and sedimentological 
evidence bearing on structural repetition in early Archaean rocks of the Barberton 
greenstone belt, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 27, 165–186. 
Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R., Kyte, F., Shukolyukov, A., Asaro, F., Krull, A., 2003. Spherule beds 
3.47–3.24 billion years old in the Barberton Greenstone Belt, South Africa: a record of large 
meteorite impacts and their influence on early crustal and biological evolution. 
Astrobiology, 3, 7–48. 
Mojzsis, S.J., Arrhenius, G., McKeegan, K.D., Harrison, T.M., Nutman, A.P., Friend, C.R.L., 1996. 
Evidence for life on Earth before 3,800 million years ago. Nature, 384, 55–59. 
Nijman, W., De Bruijne, K.C.H., Valkering, M.E., 1999. Growth fault control of Early Archaean 
cherts, barite mounds and chert-barite veins, North Pole Dome, Eastern Pilbara, Western 
Australia. Precambrian Res., 95, 247–274. 
Oehler, D.Z., Schopf, J.W., Kvenvolden, K.A., 1972. Carbon isotopic studies of organic matter in 
Precambrian rocks. Science, 175, 1246–1248. 
Paris, I.A., 1990. Depositional environment of the Onverwacht sedimentary rocks, Barberton 
greenstone belt, South Africa. J. Afr. Earth Sci., 10, 509–518. 
Paris, I., Stanistreet, I.G., Hughes, M.J., 1985. Cherts of the Barberton greenstone belt interpreted 
as products of submarine exhalative activity. J. Geol., 93, 111–129. 
Schidlowski, M., 1988. A 3800-million-year isotopic record of life from carbon in sedimentary 
rocks. Nature, 333, 313–318. 
Schopf, J.W., Walter, M.R., 1983. Archean microfossils: new evidence of ancient microbes. In: 
Schopf, J.W. (Ed.), Earth´s Earliest Biosphere: its Origin and Evolution. Princeton 
University Press, New Jersey, pp. 214–239. 
Schopf, J.W., Kudryavtsev, A. B., Agresti, D.G., Wdowiak, T.J., Czaja, A.D., 2002. Laser–Raman 
imagery of Earth´s earliest fossils. Nature, 416, 73–76. 
Siever, R., 1992. The silica cycle in the Precambrian. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 56, 
3265–3272. 
Stanistreet, I.G., Hughes, M.J., 1984. Pseudoconglomerate and a re-examination of some 
palaeoenvironmental controversies. Geology, 12, 717–719. 
Tice, M. M., Lowe, D.R., 2004. Photosynthetic microbial mats in the 3,416-Myr-old ocean. Nature, 
431, 549–552. 
 
31

--- Page 35 ---
 
 
Ueno, Y., Yoshioka, H., Maruyama, S., Isozaki, Y., 2004. Carbon isotopes and petrography of 
kerogens in ~3.5-Ga hydrothermal silica dikes in the North Pole area, Western Australia. 
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, 68, 573–589. 
Van Zuilen, M.A., Lepland, A., Arrhenius, G., 2002. Reassessing the evidence for the earliest 
traces of life. Nature, 418, 627–629. 
Viljoen, R. P., Viljoen, M.J., 1969a. The geological and geochemical significance of the upper 
formations of the Onverwacht Group. Spec. Publ. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 2, 113–151. 
Viljoen, M.J., Viljoen, R.P., 1969b. An introduction to the geology of the Barberton granite-
greenstone terrain. Spec. Publ. Geol. Soc. S. Afr., 2, 9–28. 
Walsh, M.M., 1992. Microfossils and possible microfossils from the early Archean Onverwacht 
Group, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 54, 271–293. 
Walsh, M.M., Lowe, D.R., 1985. Filamentous microfossils from the 3,500-Myr-old Onverwacht 
Group, Barberton Mountain Land, South Africa. Nature, 314, 530–532. 
Walsh, M.M., Lowe, D.R., 1999. Modes of accumulation of carbonaceous matter in the Early 
Archean: a petrographic and geochemical study of the carbonaceous cherts of the Swaziland 
Supergroup. In: Lowe, D.R., Byerly, G.R. (Eds.), Geologic Evolution of the Barberton 
Greenstone Belt, South Africa. Spec. Pap. Geol. Soc. Amer., 329, 115–132. 
Westall, F., De Wit, M. J., Dann, J. C., Van der Gaast, S., De Ronde, C. E. J., Gerneke, D. 2001. 
Early Archean fossil bacteria and biofilms in hydrothermally influenced sediments from the 
Barberton greenstone belt, South Africa. Precambrian Res., 106, 93–116. 
Williams, D.A.C., Furnell, R.G., 1979. Reassessment of part of the Barberton type area, South 
Africa. Precambrian Res., 9, 325–347. 
 
___________________oOo____________________ 
 
 
32

