Figure 1. Geological map of the western part of the Barberton greenstone belt (modified from Kamo and Davis, 1994; Lowe and Byerly, 1999).		PDF_page:6		DOC_page:2
Figure 2. Stratigraphic logs of the Barberton greenstone belt from the western and eastern limbs of the Onverwacht Anticline (modified from Lowe and Byerly, 1999).		PDF_page:8		DOC_page:4
Figure 3. Geological map of an area in the central part of the Barberton greenstone belt, termed the central study area (see Fig. 1 for location). Note the tectonic duplication of the Mendon Formation and overlying Fig Tree Group. Sedimentary rocks below, and volcanic rocks above, the thrust fault are altered to black chert.		PDF_page:11		DOC_page:7
Figure 4. Simplified measured sections of (a) chert horizon H3c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, (b) chert horizon H5c of the Hooggenoeg Formation, and (c) a section exposed beneath chert horizon K1c1 of the Kromberg Formation.		PDF_page:12		DOC_page:8
Figure 5. (a) Load and flame structures at the base of a grey chert bed overlying black chert. Bedding in black chert is strongly convoluted. (b) Stratiform black chert vein transecting stratified grey chert. Note the fracturing of host rock by chert veins.		PDF_page:13		DOC_page:9
Figure 6. Photomicrographs of carbonaceous sedimentary cherts and chert dykes; plane polarized light, scale bars are 500 µm long. (a) Carbonaceous grains in chert dyke below chert horizon H3c. Note idiomorphic sulphide grain (top centre). (b) Flattened carbonaceous grains near the top of H3c. (a) Loosly packed disrupted fragments of carbonaceous chert in a chert dyke below H5c. (d) Single and composite carbonaceous grains in sedimentary chert K1c1. Note botryoidal cements that enclose carbonaceous material (arrows). (e) Ellipsoidal carbonaceous grains filling a chert dyke below the Buck Reef Chert. (f) Silicified siltstone containing disseminated carbonaceous grains.		PDF_page:14		DOC_page:10
Figure 7. (a) Network of black chert veins cross-cutting silicified basalt 2-3 m below the basalt- chert contact. (b) Irregular, finger-like protrusions of black chert replacing silicified basalt.		PDF_page:15		DOC_page:11
Figure 8. Simplified section of the Buck Reef Chert.		PDF_page:17		DOC_page:13
Figure 9. (a) Silicified dacitic sandstone transected and brecciated by stratiform veins of black and botryoidal chert. (b) Banded chert consisting of multiple stratiform veins, as indicated by angular fragments of dacitic host rock (arrows). (c) Dyke consisting of (1) laminated black chert, (2) massive black chert with fragmental texture, and (3) weathered translucent chert with angular black chert fragments. Layering is parallel to dyke walls (not seen in photograph), which are perpendicular to stratification of the host rock. (d) Black chert dyke with fragments of massive dacitic host rock (1) cut by stratification-parallel black chert vein (2) showing lamination.		PDF_page:19		DOC_page:15
Figure 10. Simplified stratigraphic sections of chert horizon K3c at the top of the Kromberg Formation in the central study area (localities 5 and 6, Fig. 3) and on Josefsdal farm (locality 7, Fig. 1).		PDF_page:21		DOC_page:17
Figure 11. (a) Amoeboidal patches of black chert in massive silicified basalt. Note the rim of translucent chert along basalt contacts (arrow). (b) Basalt pebble conglomerate transected and brecciated by black chert dykes. Some breccia fragments show evidence of marginal replacement by black chert (arrow).		PDF_page:21		DOC_page:17
Figure 12. (a) Silicified basalt with translucent chert veins (arrows). Breccia of silicified basalt and chert fragments (left centre) probably represents a fissure filling. (b) Thin black chert veins transecting silicified basalt. (c) Black chert-veined and brecciated silicified basalt. Note local replacement of basalt by black chert (arrow). (d) Grey banded chert brecciated by thin black chert veins. Some chert veins contain rounded clasts derived from an overlying chert conglomerate bed.		PDF_page:23		DOC_page:19
Figure 13. Geological map of the southern part of the Barite Valley Syncline and stratigraphic section of the western limb (Heinrichs and Reimer, 1977; Lowe and Byerly, 2003; own mapping). A and B are localities discussed in the text.		PDF_page:24		DOC_page:20
Figure 14. (a) Chert dyke consisting of botryoidal chert at the margin and a later fill of carbonaceous chert in the centre. (b) Chert dyke containing fragments of silicified sedimentary host rock in a black chert matrix. Some fragments have been fractured by thin chert veins after being incorporated into the dyke (arrows). (c) Dyke of massive black chert that transects silicified sedimentary rocks and branches into a stratiform vein upsection. Stratigraphic way-up is to the top. Picture taken on east limb of the Barite Valley Syncline. (d) Angular fragments of silicified sedimentary rock that are rimmed by translucent, laminated and somewhat botryoidal chert, resulting in a more rounded shape of the fragments. (e) Angular to rounded pebbles of black translucent chert in a fragmental black chert matrix. Pebbles are rimmed by megaquartz. (f) Banded jaspilitic chert intruded and partly replaced (arrows) by black chert.		PDF_page:26		DOC_page:22
Figure 15. Field relationships between silicified sedimentary rocks (bedding is indicated) and intrusive veins and dykes of massive carbonaceous chert. Scale bars are 10 cm long.		PDF_page:27		DOC_page:23
Figure 16. (a) Lenticular-banded, altered ultramafic rock transected by carbonaceous and botryoidal chert dykes and veins. (b) The Msauli Chert is cut by carbonaceous chert dykes (1) at an angle to bedding. Some dykes show a crude stratification parallel to the dyke walls (arrow). A later vein of black botryoidal chert (2) transects the rock subparallel to bedding. (c) Black chert vein intrusive into parallel-stratified Msauli Chert. The chert vein shows a fine lamination parallel to the vein walls (arrow). (d) Lapillistone transected by botryoidal chert veins. Note that chert infiltrates the lapillistone along the vein margin and displaces individual lapilli outwards (arrows).		PDF_page:29		DOC_page:25
Figure 17. (a) Parallel- and cross-laminated carbonaceous chert c.15 m below the shear zone. Stratigraphic way-up is to the right. (b) Silicified pillow basalt consisting predominantly of massive black chert.		PDF_page:30		DOC_page:26
