 
4
(in more than 20 localities) of polymictic subrounded to subangular faceted clasts with striations, 
sometimes in multiple sets; the generally massive, unbedded, poorly sorted and fine-grained 
matrix-supported nature of the diamictite; and the presence of associated varved shales with 
dropstones (Van den Brande, 1936; Cahen, 1963, 1978; François, 1973; Binda and Van Eden, 
1974). 
 
Because of the absence of subglacial striated pavements, very little is known about palaeoflow 
directions of the Neoproterozoic glaciers which deposited the Grand Conglomerat. Studies of the 
isopachs and facies in the Grand Conglomerat indicate that thin continental glacial moraines were 
situated in the north of the Lufilian arc, while to the south deposition was in the form of thicker 
glaciomarine facies (François, 1973; Binda and Van Eden, 1974; Museu, 1987). In the Chambishi 
Basin, in borehole MJZC/9, the 26 m thick Grand Conglomerat is conformable with black shales 
and turbidites (109 m thick) of the underlying Mwashya Subgroup. Diamictites of the Grand 
Conglomerat are interbedded with turbidites, and are interpreted to have formed by sediment 
gravity flow processes in a glaciomarine basin (e.g., Benn and Evans, 1998).  
 
Nguba Group-West Lunga Formation 
 
To the southeast of the Mwinilunga area, strongly deformed and poorly differentiated Katangan 
rocks of the West Lunga Formation, comprising shales, dolomites, siltstones, diamictites, banded 
iron formations and porphyritic volcanics, have been provisionally correlated with the Lower 
Kundelungu Supergroup (Liyungu et al., 2001), which corresponds to the upper part of the Nguba 
Group above the Grand Conglomerat (i.e., Muombe Subgroup of Wendorff, 2003a,b). One of the 
porphyritic lavas in this area has been dated at 735 ± 5 Ma with the U/Pb SHRIMP technique on 
single zircon, but its exact stratigraphic position with respect to the Grand Conglomerat is 
problematical (Armstrong, 2000; Liyungu et al., 2001).  
 
Kundelungu Group-Petit Conglomerat Formation 
 
The Petit Conglomerat Formation forms the base of the Kundelungu Group, and may overlie the 
Nguba Group with an erosional unconformity (Wendorff, 2003b). The Petit Conglomerat 
diamicitite is, like the Grand Conglomerat,  also of glacial origin (based on the abundant and 
widespread presence of faceted and striated clasts of both intrabasinal and extrabasinal origin; 
Vanden Brande, 1936; Cahen, 1978), and is overlain by a cap carbonate (the “Calcaire rose”). 
 
Fungurume Group 
 
The Fungurume Group is a newly defined unit in the Katanga Supergroup, regarded as a 
syntectonic foreland basin fill (Wendorff, 2003a), which rests unconformably on the Nguba Group. 
It consists of continental red beds of the Mutoshi Formation, previously called “RAT”; the Dipeta 
Formation consisting of marginal marine mixed clastic and carbonate rocks; and the Kambove 
Formation, comprising olistostromes deposited by subaqueous sediment-gravity flows (Wendorff, 
2003a).  
 
Biano Group 
 
The Biano Group (Wendorff, 2003a,b), also known as Ks3 (François, 1973), Groupe du Biano 
(François, 1995), Plateau Group (Wendorff, 2001), or Plateaux Subgroup of the Kundelungu 
Group, Ku3 (Cailteux, 2003), was examined in outcrops 8 km NE of Gombela, in the Kundelungu 
Plateau National Park, Katanga, D.R. Congo. Here the uppermost Katangan sedimentary rocks 
consist entirely of red siltstones which are rippled. 
 
