 
22
however, be noted that the composition of the clasts in the Grand Conglomerat at Kipushi is 
different from the usual assemblage of clasts found in the Grand Conglomerat elsewhere within the 
Lufilian Arc, which is dominated by the presence of quartzite pebbles derived from the Kibaran 
Belt or from the Muva Supergroup, occurring together with less abundant clasts of granitic and 
basic rocks (François, 1973; Cahen, 1978). Recent observations by the senior author from outcrops 
at Shituru (Ngoie, 2003); S of Luiswishi (Cailteux et al., 2003b); NW of Kakanda and SE of 
Fungurume (Mbuyi, 2003) confirm the presence of abundant rounded and faceted quartzite clasts in 
the Grand Conglomerat in these areas.  
 
In glacial tillites, distinctive clasts whose origin is pinpointed exactly are known as glacial 
indicators (Norman Smith, pers. comm., 1998). The Grand Conglomerat intersected by surface 
borehole CK73 drilled in Zambia close to Kipushi Mine contains exotic granitic clasts. One of 
these clasts is a white porphyritic granitoid, containing large (up to 1 cm long) white euhedral 
feldspar phenocrysts. This granitoid variety is completely unknown on the Copperbelt in Zambia 
(Pier Binda, pers. comm., 1993), but is known to outcrop on the Luina Dome in the Democratic 
Republic of Congo, close to the Zambian Border (Gysin, 1933, 1935; Leon de Jonghe, pers. comm., 
1993). In borehole KHI 1150/34/HZ-S at Kipushi Mine, a 15 cm long boulder of a porphyritic 
biotitic granitoid with large white euhedral feldspar phenocrysts, up to 2.3 cm long, was intersected 
in the Grand Conglomerat at a depth of 194.75 m. (Fig. 12). The distinctive feldspar-porphyritic 
granitoid clasts in the Grand Conglomerat of the Kipushi district are thus glacial indicators, and 
point to apparent west-northwesterly glacial transport for a distance of about 100 km, from the 
Luina Dome towards Kipushi. Restoring the c. 150 km maximum northward translation of the 
strata at  Kipushi  during  the thrusting of  the Lufilian Orogeny (Jackson et al., 2003) would yield a 
glacial transport vector for the Grand Conglomerat trending roughly 150 km west-southwesterly 
from the Luina Dome. It is also possible that the porphyritic granitoids found in the Grand 
Conglomerat  of  the  Kipushi  district  may  have  been  derived  from  some  unknown  porphyritic  
 
 
 
Figure 12.  Photograph of a feldspar-porphyritic granitoid clast in the Grand Conglomerat from 
Kipushi Mine, D. R. Congo. 
