 
2
granite with A-type geochemical characteristics (Tembo et al., 2000). SHRIMP U-Pb dating of 
zircons from the Nchanga Granite has yielded a concordant age of 883 ± 10 Ma, regarded as the 
age of the intrusion (Armstrong et al., 2005). The Nchanga Granite is nonconformably overlain by 
the Katanga Supergroup.  
 
KATANGA SUPERGROUP 
 
The Katangan sequence consists of metasedimentary rocks traditionally divided into the Roan, 
Lower and Upper Kundelungu Supergroups (Cailteux et al., 1994; François, 1995). Current 
lithostratigraphic practice in the D. R. Congo is to subdivide the Katanga Supergroup into the Roan, 
Nguba (ex-Lower Kundelungu) and Kundelungu (ex-Upper Kundelungu) Groups, which are further 
subdivided into several subgroups (Cailteux, 2003). More recently, Wendorff (2001a,b; 2002a,b; 
2003a) has proposed a new lithostratigraphic scheme, in which the Katanga Supergroup is 
subdivided into the Roan and Guba Groups, with two additional lithotectonic units, the Fungurume 
and Biano Groups, which he proposed were deposited syntectonically in a foreland basin during 
deformation of the earlier Katangan groups during the Pan-African Lufilian Orogeny. Wendorff 
(2003b) also uses the term “Kundelungu Group” to include the lower parts of the old “Upper 
Kundelungu” Supergroup, the Ks1 and Ks2 of Cailteux et al. (1995), which Wendorff (2003a) had 
included as the upper part of his “Guba Group”.  In this paper, we adopt the lithostratigraphic 
scheme and terminology of Wendorff (2003b), except that we use the name “Nguba Group” instead 
of “Guba Group”, following the recommendations of Cailteux (2003), and existing practice among 
Katangan geologists. The lithostratigraphy of the Katanga Supergroup, as used in this paper, is 
summarised in Table 1.  
 
Table 1. Lithostratigraphy of the Katanga Supergroup (modified after Wendorff, 2003 and 
Cailteux, 2003). 
 
 
Roan Group  
 
The lowermost Roan Group of the Katanga Supergroup, subdivided into the mainly siliciclastic 
Lower Roan and the mainly dolomitic Upper Roan Subgroups (Table 1), consists of conglomerates, 
quartzites, arkoses, shales, siltstones, dolomitic shales, and anhydrite-bearing dolostones. The Roan 
Group is overlain unconformably by the Mwashya Subgroup, which forms the base of the Nguba 
Group. 
Group
Subgroup
Formation
Member
Biano
Kambove
Fungurume
Dipeta
Musoshi
Kiubo
Kundelungu
Kalule
Petit Conglomerat
Monwezi
Nguba
Muombe
Grand Conglomerat
Mwashya
Roan
Upper Roan
Lower Roan
Katanga Supergroup
