 
25
Biano Group 
 
Detrital muscovites from the red siltstones of the Biano Group show a spread of laser 40Ar/39Ar 
ages over 900 Ma (between 1478 and 573 Ma) indicating that these muscovite grains have not been 
reset since sedimentation, but that they retain the primary ages derived from their parent rocks. The 
youngest detrital muscovite age of 573 ± 5 Ma is regarded as the maximum age for the sediments 
of the Biano Group, which are thus constrained to be terminal Neoproterozoic and/or early 
Palaeozoic in age, and this timing strongly supports models which regard the Biano Group as being 
deposited in a foreland basin to the Pan-African Lufilian Orogeny (e.g., Wendorff, 2001a,b, 2002b, 
2003a), rather than the earlier models which regarded it as having been deposited in an aulacogen 
(e.g., Porada, 1989). Furthermore, the Biano Group has two main ages of detrital zircons. The older 
ages (1977 ± 11 and 1780 ± 37 Ma) span the age range of magmatic arc rocks of the Bangweulu 
Block, including the basement in the Copperbelt (Brewer et al., 1979; Ngoyi et al., 1991; Rainaud 
et al., 2005). The younger ages (1219 ± 113 and 1176 ± 62 Ma) overlap with the 1134 ± 8 Ma age 
of the Lusenga hornblende syenite, which intrudes the Mporokoso Group on the Bangweulu Block 
(Brewer et al., 1979; Andersen and Unrug, 1984). The Biano Group thus appears to have been 
derived from a source terrain comprising the Bangweulu Block (consistent with the measured 
palaeocurrent directions), and from a terrain (the Lufilian arc) which had undergone metamorphism 
from 638 to 573 Ma. Thus these sediments are likely to have been deposited in a foreland basin 
ahead of the Lufilian orogenic front, having been derived from erosion of the orogen itself, as well 
as from the forebulge surrounding the foreland basin (the Bangweulu Block).  
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
The new SHRIMP U-Pb data on the ages of detrital zircons from sedimentary rocks of the 
Neoproterozoic Katanga Supergroup, and the preliminary 40Ar-39Ar data on detrital muscovites 
from the uppermost Katangan beds, give information on the age and likely nature of the source 
regions for the Katangan sediments and provide age constraints on upper Katangan (Biano Group) 
sedimentation.  
 
Detrital zircon ages indicate a mainly Palaeoproterozoic (between 2081 ± 28 and 1836 ± 26 Ma) 
provenance for the Katanga basin, derived from the Metamorphic Lufubu Complex of the Kafue 
Anticline and the Bangweulu Block to the north of the outcrop belt. Detrital zircons and clasts from 
Roan Group sediments indicate a source from the Palaeoproterozoic granitoids of the Kafue 
Anticline, as well as, more locally, from the Nchanga Granite. The relative scarcity of Muva 
quartzite clasts, as well as the total absence of any >2200 Ma older Palaeoproterozoic and Archaean 
recycled zircons (that are known to be abundant in the Muva), indicate the relative unimportance of 
the Muva quartzites in the provenance of the Roan Group, which was derived mainly from a block-
faulted Palaeoproterozoic basement region from which a relatively thin veneer of Muva quartzites 
had been stripped away by erosion.  
 
Detrital zircons and clasts from the Grand Conglomerat glacial diamictite in the Kipushi area 
indicate a source from the Palaeoproterozoic metavolcanic porphyries and granitoids of the Luina 
Dome region, near the western end of the Kafue Anticline, which was a basement high during 
Nguba Group deposition. Elsewhere in the Lufilian Arc, the Grand Conglomerat contains abundant 
quartzite clasts, which were derived either from the Kibaran Belt, or from a cover of Muva 
Supergroup rocks to the north of the Katangan depository. Minor zircons of Mesoproterozoic age 
may have been derived from granitoids of the Kibaran belt. The size distribution and nature of 
clasts in the Petit Conglomerat indicate a north-to-south transport direction, corresponding to the 
diminution in size and abundance of extrabasinal clasts (derived from the Kibaran Belt and the 
Bangweulu Block). Finally, 40Ar/39Ar age data from detrital muscovites from Biano Group 
siltstones give a maximum age of sedimentation of 573 ± 5 Ma, strongly supporting previous 
