 
21
 
 
Figure 11. 206Pb/238U vs 207Pb/235U concordia plot of ages (Ma) of detrital zircons from a red 
siltstone of the Biano Group (sample KPM3), 8 km NE of Gombela, Kundelungu Plateau National 
Park, D. R. Congo. 
 
The age spectrum of detrital zircons from the Lower Roan Subgroup does not show any older 
Palaeoproterozoic to Mesoarchaean (c. 2200 to 3200 Ma) ages, such as those obtained from detrital 
zircons in the Muva quartzite south of Mufulira (Rainaud et al., 2003). This indicates that the Roan 
sediments were not derived from the same sources as the Muva quartzites (which are interpreted to 
have formed as a molasse to the Kibaran Orogeny, deriving components from the Congo Craton; 
Rainaud et al., 2005). At the time of Roan sedimentation, the Congo Craton west of the Kibaran 
belt was covered by the Mbuji-Mayi (Bushimay) succession (Raucq, 1970), which is older than 950 
Ma (Cahen et al., 1984), thus the Archaean and early Palaeoproterozoic rocks of the Congo Craton 
may not have outcropped to provide detritus into the Katangan basin. The lack of recycled detrital 
Archaean and older Palaeoproterozoic zircons derived from the Muva sedimentary rocks also 
indicates the relative unimportance of the Muva quartzites in the provenance of the Roan 
sediments. The Muva sedimentary rocks in the Copperbelt region must have been present only as a 
thin veneer over the Palaeoproterozoic magmatic arc rocks of the Lufubu Metamorphic Complex, 
which provided the bulk of the detritus for the Roan sediments. Quartzite pebbles and boulders in 
the Roan-Muliashi Basin (Lee-Potter, 1961; Mendelsohn, 1961b), the Chambishi-Nkana Basin 
(Garlick, 1961; Jordaan, 1961) and Nchanga (McKinnon and Smit, 1961), together with some 
polycrystalline quartzite clasts recorded from Lower Roan aeolian quartzites at Musoshi Mine 
(Master, 1993) may have been derived from erosion of the thin veneer of Muva quartzites. By 
comparison with the diamictites of the Grand Conglomerat, which have a clast population 
dominated by quartzites (see below), the relative sparsity of quartzite pebbles in the Roan 
sediments indicates that the source region, formerly covered by a veneer of Muva quartzite, had 
been uplifted and eroded, exposing the Palaeoproterozoic basement which dominated the sediment 
supply. This would be consistent with active faulting in the provenance area, and supports models 
for the deposition of the Roan Group in an active continental rift (e.g., Porada, 1989; Master, 1993; 
Tembo et al., 1999).  
 
Nguba Group-Grand Conglomerat Formation 
 
The petrography of the Grand Conglomerat at Kipushi indicates that it contains numerous clasts 
derived from a mixed plutonic (granitic and amphibolitic) and metavolcanic (quartz porphyry 
schist) terrain. The presence of abundant monocrystalline euhedral to subhedral quartz crystals, 
some attached to crenulated biotite schist, indicates an origin from metamorphosed volcanic quartz 
porphyries, such as those in the Lufubu Metamorphic Complex (Rainaud et al., 2005). It should, 
